<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<DESCRIPTION>10-K
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                            ------------------------
                                   FORM 10-K
                                ---------------

<TABLE>
<S>        <C>
           (MARK ONE)
/X/        ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES
           EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [FEE REQUIRED]
                           FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1994
/ /        TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES
           EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]
</TABLE>

            FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM            TO
                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-3619
                                  PFIZER INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

<TABLE>
<S>                                   <C>
              DELAWARE                      13-5315170
  (State or other jurisdiction of        (I.R.S. Employer
   incorporation or organization)     Identification Number)
        235 East 42nd Street
         New York, New York                   10017
  (Address of principal executive           (Zip Code)
              offices)
</TABLE>

                                 (212) 573-2323
              (Registrant's telephone number including area code)
                            ------------------------
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                             NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE
               TITLE OF EACH CLASS                            ON WHICH REGISTERED
<S>                                                 <C>
Common Stock, $.10 par value                                New York Stock Exchange
Preferred Stock Purchase Rights                             New York Stock Exchange
4% Convertible Subordinated Debentures Due 1997             New York Stock Exchange
</TABLE>

            SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT:
                                      NONE
                            ------------------------

    Indicate  by check  mark whether  the registrant  (1) has  filed all reports
required to be filed by  Section 13 or 15(d) of  the Securities Exchange Act  of
1934  during  the preceding  12  months (or  for  such shorter  period  that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to  such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.

                              Yes __X__ No ______

    Indicate  by check mark if disclosure  of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in the definitive proxy or information statement
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. / /

        The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of
the registrant computed by reference to the closing price at which the stock was
sold as of February 27, 1995 was approximately $25.8 billion.

        The number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant's classes  of
common  stock as of February  27, 1995 was: 314,219,772  shares of common stock,
all of one class.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

<TABLE>
<S>                                                                          <C>
Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994    Parts I, II and IV
Proxy Statement dated March 16, 1995                                         Part III
</TABLE>

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<PAGE>
                               TABLE OF CONTENTS
                                     PART I

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
ITEM                                    PAGE
-----                                   ----
<C>     <S>                             <C>
   1.   Business......................     2
        General.......................     2
        Comparative Segment and
         Geographic Data..............     2
        Health Care...................     2
        Animal Health.................     4
        Consumer Health Care..........     5
        Food Science..................     5
        Financial Subsidiaries........     6
        International Operations......     6
        Tax Matters...................     6
        Patents and Research..........     7
        Employees.....................     8
        Regulation....................     8
        Raw Materials and Energy......     9
        Environment...................     9
   2.   Properties....................     9
   3.   Legal Proceedings.............    11
   4.   Submission of Matters to a
         Vote of Security Holders.....    14

                  PART II

   5.   Market for the Registrant's
         Common Equity and Related
         Stockholder Matters..........    15
   6.   Selected Financial Data.......    15
   7.   Management's Discussion and
         Analysis of Financial
         Condition and Results of
         Operations...................    16
   8.   Financial Statements and
         Supplementary Data...........    16
   9.   Changes in and Disagreements
         with Accountants on
         Accounting and Financial
         Disclosure...................    16

                  PART III

  10.   Directors and Executive
         Officers of the Registrant...    16
  11.   Executive Compensation........    22
  12.   Security Ownership of Certain
         Beneficial Owners and
         Management...................    22
  13.   Certain Relationships and
         Related Transactions.........    22

                  PART IV

  14.   Exhibits, Financial Statement
         Schedules and Reports on Form
         8-K..........................    22
        Signatures....................    24
        Financial Statement Schedule
        Exhibit 11
        Exhibit 12
        Exhibit 23
</TABLE>
<PAGE>
                                     PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

GENERAL

    Pfizer  Inc. (the  "Company") is  a diversified,  research-based health care
company with global  operations. The Company  discovers, develops,  manufactures
and  sells technology-intensive products in four business segments: Health Care,
which  includes  a  broad  range  of  prescription  pharmaceuticals,  orthopedic
implants,  medical devices and surgical equipment; Animal Health, which includes
animal health  products  and  feed  supplements;  Consumer  Health  Care,  which
includes a variety of nonprescription drugs and personal care products; and Food
Science,  which  includes  ingredients  for the  food  and  beverage industries.
Additionally, the Company's Financial  Subsidiaries include a banking  operation
in Europe and a small captive insurance operation.

COMPARATIVE SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC DATA

    Comparative  segment and geographic data for  the three years ended December
31, 1994  are  set  forth on  pages  35  and  36, and  in  the  Note  "Financial
Subsidiaries"  on page 42 of the Company's Annual Report to Shareholders for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 1994 and are incorporated herein by reference.

HEALTH CARE

    The Company's  Health  Care business  is  comprised of  pharmaceuticals  and
hospital  products.  The  Company  competes  with  numerous  other  health  care
companies in  the discovery  and development  of new,  technologically  advanced
pharmaceutical  and hospital  products; in  seeking use  of its  products by the
medical profession; and in the sale of its product lines to wholesale and retail
outlets, public and  private hospitals, managed  care organizations,  government
and the medical profession.

    Methods  of competition in health care vary with the product category. There
are a significant number of innovative companies in the field. A critical factor
in most  markets  in  which  the  Company  competes  is  the  ability  to  offer
technological advances over competitive products. The productivity of scientific
discovery  and clinical development efforts  is central to long-term operational
success since there  are many  companies that specialize  in marketing  products
that  no longer have patent or regulatory protection. Other important factors in
these markets  include  the  ability  to  transfer  knowledge  of  technological
advances to the medical community, product quality, prompt delivery and price.

    The United States pharmaceutical marketplace has in recent years experienced
intensified  price  competition,  brought about  by  a range  of  market forces,
including: new  product development,  increased generic  competition, growth  of
managed care organizations and legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to
provide  rebates  and discounts  to  government purchasers.  Similar competitive
forces, in varying degrees, have also been present in various other countries in
which the Company operates.

    Prescription pharmaceutical and hospital products, both in the United States
and abroad, are  promoted directly to  physicians, as  well as to  a variety  of
managed  care organizations.  Pharmaceutical products  are distributed  in large
part to  wholesale  and retail  outlets,  hospitals, clinics  and  managed  care
organizations.   Hospital  products  are  generally  sold  directly  to  medical
institutions and,  in  some  cases, through  distributors  and  surgical  supply
dealers.

    PHARMACEUTICALS

    The  Company's worldwide pharmaceutical products  are comprised primarily of
drugs which fall  into the following  major therapeutic classes:  cardiovascular
agents,  anti-infectives, central nervous system agents, anti-inflammatories and
anti-diabetes agents. In 1994, pharmaceuticals made up 70%

                                       2
<PAGE>
of the Company's consolidated net sales, an increase from 69% in 1993 and 63% in
1992. Increases in both United States and international pharmaceutical  revenues
in  1994 were principally the result of strong sales of products launched in the
1990s, including Norvasc  (amlodipine besylate),  Cardura (doxazosin  mesylate),
Diflucan (fluconazole), Zithromax (azithromycin) and Zoloft (sertraline).

    Cardiovascular  products are the Company's  largest therapeutic product line
accounting for 29%  of the Company's  consolidated 1994 net  sales, an  increase
from 27% in 1993 and 23% in 1992. These products realized sales growth of 20% in
1994, including an 85% increase in sales of Norvasc, an intrinsically once-a-day
calcium  channel blocker for hypertension and angina,  as well as a 27% increase
in sales of Cardura, an alpha blocker for hypertension. A supplemental New  Drug
Application  for  the  use  of  Cardura in  the  treatment  of  benign prostatic
hyperplasia  ("BPH")  was  approved   by  the  United   States  Food  and   Drug
Administration  ("FDA")  in February  1995.  Sales of  Procardia  XL (nifedipine
GITS), a  once-a-day  calcium  channel  blocker  for  hypertension  and  angina,
increased  by less than 1% in 1994. The Company's U.S. cardiovascular sales grew
12% and international sales of cardiovascular agents rose 38% in 1994.

    Worldwide anti-infective  sales increased  7%  in 1994  on the  strength  of
Diflucan  and Zithromax. U.S. anti-infective  sales grew 14% while international
sales rose by  3%. Diflucan,  an antifungal  agent, is  indicated for  use in  a
variety  of fungal  infections including  certain types  which afflict  AIDS and
immunosuppressed cancer patients.  The product also  received U.S. approval  for
the  indication of vaginal candidiasis in 1994. Diflucan posted a sales increase
of 14% in 1994  and Zithromax, an  oral antibiotic, posted  a sales increase  of
43%.  Total anti-infective sales accounted for 21% of the Company's consolidated
1994 net sales, compared to 22% in 1993 and 20% in 1992.

    Sales of Pfizer's central nervous system agents rose 46% in 1994, reflecting
increased sales of Zoloft,  an anti-depressant introduced in  the U.S. in  1992.
Central  nervous system agents grew to 13%  of 1994 net pharmaceutical sales and
9% of the Company's consolidated 1994 net sales.

    The  Company's  anti-inflammatory  agents,  including  Feldene  (piroxicam),
accounted for less than 10% of the Company's consolidated 1994 net sales.

    The  Company's  anti-diabetes  agents, including  Glucotrol  (glipizide) and
Glucotrol XL (glipizide GITS), a sustained release anti-diabetic approved in the
U.S. in 1994, accounted for less than 10% of the Company's consolidated 1994 net
sales.

    The Company  currently is  seeking approval  by the  FDA for  the  following
products for the indications listed:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
     PRODUCT                                                   INDICATION(S)
     -----------------------------------     --------------------------------------------------
     <S>                                     <C>
     Cetirizine (launched in Canada in
      1991 under the name Reactine;
      received "approvable" letter from
      the FDA in February 1995 for
      cetirizine as an antihistamine)...     Low-sedating antihistamine; Pediatric
     Enable (tenidap) (known as Enablex
      outside the United States)........     Osteo- and rheumatoid arthritis
     Unasyn (sulbactam/ampicillin)......     Injectable antibiotic-pediatric
     Zithromax (received "approvable"
      letter from the FDA in January
      1995 for pediatric indications)...     Oral antibiotic-pediatric; sexually transmitted
                                              diseases
     Zoloft.............................     Obsessive-compulsive disorder ("OCD")
</TABLE>

                                       3
<PAGE>
    In addition, the Company has marketing rights in the United States and Japan
to  XOMA Corporation, Inc.'s E5, a monoclonal antibody for the treatment of gram
negative sepsis, which is undergoing FDA regulatory review.

    To date, Diflucan has been launched in 62 countries and regulatory approvals
have been obtained in 16 additional  countries. Norvasc has been launched in  74
countries  and approvals have been obtained  in 14 additional countries. Cardura
has been  launched  in 23  countries  and approvals  have  been obtained  in  35
additional  countries. In  addition, Cardura for  BPH has been  approved in five
countries. Zithromax has been launched in  38 countries and approvals have  been
obtained  in 24 additional  countries. Zoloft has been  launched in 31 countries
for depression.  Approvals have  been obtained  in an  additional 16  countries.
Applications  for  regulatory approval  for the  OCD  indication have  been made
worldwide and  approvals  have  been  obtained  in  four  additional  countries,
although  it has not  yet been launched  in these countries.  In addition to the
United States, where regulatory approval is being sought for both the osteo- and
rheumatoid arthritis indications, regulatory approvals for Enablex capsules  for
rheumatoid  arthritis  have  been applied  for  in  29 countries  and  have been
obtained in two countries. No launches of Enablex have yet taken place.

    HOSPITAL PRODUCTS

    The Company's Hospital Products Group consists of two divisions -- Howmedica
and Medical  Devices. Howmedica  manufactures and  markets orthopedic  implants.
Medical  Devices consists of three core  businesses -- Valleylab, Schneider, and
American Medical  Systems  and two  smaller  businesses --  Strato/Infusaid  and
Biomedical Sensors.

    Howmedica's  reconstructive hip, knee  and bone cement  products are used to
replace joints which have deteriorated as  a result of disease or injury.  Major
product  lines are P.C.A. Hips, ABG Hips, Duracon Knees and Simplex Bone Cement.
Howmedica's trauma products  are used by  orthopedic surgeons to  aid in  trauma
surgery  and in setting  fractures and include  the Gamma Nail,  Luhr System and
Alta System.

    Schneider, an  international  leader in  angioplasty  catheters, is  also  a
market  leader in vascular  and non-vascular stent  applications. In March 1995,
the Company acquired NAMIC U.S.A. Corporation ("NAMIC"), a Company that designs,
manufactures and markets a broad  range of single-patient use medical  products,
primarily  for use in  the diagnosis of  atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease.
NAMIC's product lines complement those of  Schneider and are expected to  expand
the  opportunities  for  this  business.  Valleylab  is  a  worldwide  leader in
electrosurgical devices. Valleylab continues to  invest in new product lines  to
enhance  patient and physician  safety. American Medical Systems  is a leader in
impotence and incontinence implants. Its major product development activities in
1994 were  focused on  new therapies  for the  treatment of  BPH and  urological
strictures.

    The   merger  and  the   consolidation  of  operations   of  Strato  Medical
Corporation, a supplier of implantable  vascular access ports, and Infusaid,  an
innovator  of implantable infusion  pumps, were completed  in 1994. The combined
operation will focus on advanced drug delivery systems. Biomedical Sensors  grew
in  1994  reflecting  the full  year  launch  of the  Paratrend  7 intravascular
continuous blood gas monitoring  system, incorporating both electrochemical  and
fiberoptic technology.

ANIMAL HEALTH

    The  Company's  Animal Health  Group  discovers, develops,  manufactures and
sells animal health  products for the  prevention and treatment  of diseases  in
livestock,  poultry  and other  animals.  The principal  products  are: Dectomax
(doramectin), the Company's new antiparasitic  which was first launched in  1993
and  is now  available in  much of  Latin America,  South Africa  and the United
Kingdom; Terramycin LA-200 (oxytetracycline) (marketed as TM/LA outside of North
America),  a  broad-spectrum  injectable  antibiotic;  the  Banminth   (pyrantel
tartrate),   Nemex   (pyrantel   pamoate)  and   Paratect   (morantel  tartrate)
anthelmintics; Coxistac and Posistac (salinomycin) anticoccidials primarily  for
poultry;  Terramycin (oxytetracycline),  a broad-spectrum antibiotic  used for a
variety of

                                       4
<PAGE>
animal diseases;  Mecadox (carbadox),  an antibacterial  for pigs;  and  Advocin
(danofloxacin),   the  Company's  new  antibacterial  for  treating  respiratory
diseases  in   livestock   and   poultry.  Aviax   (semduramicin),   a   potent,
broad-spectrum  ionophore anticoccidial used to  prevent coccidiosis in poultry,
is to be launched in  1995. Aviax is currently  under regulatory review in  many
countries,  with approvals already received in  a number of countries, including
the United States and Japan. In 1995,  the Animal Health Group plans a total  of
49 new market launches of Dectomax, Advocin and Aviax.

    Animal  health  and nutrition  products are  sold through  drug wholesalers,
distributors,  retail   outlets   and   directly  to   users,   including   feed
manufacturers,  animal producers and veterinarians.  Methods of competition with
respect to animal health products vary somewhat but include product  innovation,
service,  price, quality and effective transfer of technological advances to the
market through advertising and promotion.

    In January 1995, the Company  acquired the SmithKline Beecham Animal  Health
("SBAH")  business.  SBAH is  a world  leader in  animal vaccines  and companion
animal health products,  which complement the  Company's existing animal  health
business  in  terms  of product,  species  and regional  sales  coverage. SBAH's
principal products are  Stafac (virginiamycin), a  feed additive  anti-infective
for  poultry, cattle and  swine; Valbazen (albendazole),  a bovine parasiticide;
Filaribits (diethylcarbamazine citrate),  a pet parasiticide;  and a variety  of
vaccines including BoviShield, Leukocell, RespiSure and Vanguard.

    A  substantial number  of other companies  manufacture and sell  one or more
similar products  for animal  health use.  There are  hundreds of  producers  of
animal  health  products  throughout the  world.  The Company  is  a significant
manufacturer of injectable antibiotics, anthelmintics and anticoccidial products
for food animals. With the acquisition of SBAH, the Company became a significant
manufacturer of biologicals and pet products as well.

CONSUMER HEALTH CARE

    The Company's  Consumer Health  Care  Group's products  include  proprietary
health items, baby care products and toiletries, Plax pre-brushing dental rinse,
and  a number of products sold only in selected international markets, including
Vanart hair  care  products in  Mexico  and Migraleve  over-the-counter  ("OTC")
migraine  medication  and the  TCP line  of  antiseptic and  germicidal products
marketed primarily in the United Kingdom.

    Among the  better-known OTC  brands manufactured  and marketed  by  Consumer
Health   Care  are  Visine  (tetrahydrozoline  HCl)  eyedrops,  Ben-Gay  topical
analgesics, Desitin diaper rash  ointments, Unisom (doxylamine succinate)  sleep
aids,  Plax pre-brushing dental rinse, Rid anti-lice products and Barbasol shave
creams and  gels. Line  extensions introduced  in recent  years include:  Unisom
SleepGels,  soft liquid-filled gels  with a maximum-strength  sleep aid formula,
Daily Care from  Desitin, a lotion  for the  prevention of diaper  rash and  new
formulations of Rid and Plax.

    Many  other OTC companies, large and small, manufacture and sell one or more
similar consumer  products. The  Company  is a  significant competitor  in  this
extensive  OTC market, and its principal  methods of competition include product
quality,  product   innovation,   customer  satisfaction,   broad   distribution
capabilities,  significant advertising and promotion  and price. In general, the
winning and retaining of consumer acceptance of the Company's consumer  products
involve heavy expenditures for advertising, promotion and marketing.

FOOD SCIENCE

    The  Company's Food Science Group serves the global food processing industry
with innovative food ingredients to meet worldwide trends toward convenient  and
healthful  foods. Specialty ingredients with quality parameters of appeal, taste
and freshness, coupled with Food Science's technical,

                                       5
<PAGE>
application and  discovery  skills,  serve  the  needs  of  the  worldwide  food
industry.   Food  Science's  longer-term  goals  are  linked  to  the  Company's
healthcare strategies by targeting a new generation of food ingredients to allow
better health maintenance through diet.

    Food Science's specialty ingredients  include: "lite" food ingredients  such
as  Litesse (polydextrose); flavors  (veltols); food protectants (erythorbates);
and brewery ingredients.  Currently under development  are products for  calorie
control  utilizing  bulking agents;  products  for fat  replacement  and reduced
calorie intake from fats; high temperature fat substitutes; intense  sweeteners;
food  protectants; and flavors.  In October 1994,  Food Science acquired certain
assets of Flavor  Technology Inc.,  a company  that specializes  in the  design,
customization and manufacture of proprietary flavorings.

    The  Food Science  business competes with  other organizations  for sales of
most  of  its  ingredients  as  well  as  substitute  products.  Some  of  these
organizations  produce and sell products that  are either identical to, or serve
the same  function as,  ingredients  marketed by  Food  Science. The  number  of
competitors  varies with each particular ingredient. Methods of competition vary
by ingredient but include  innovation and quality,  prompt delivery, ability  to
meet exacting specifications, technical service and cost.

FINANCIAL SUBSIDIARIES

    In  1992, the  Company completed the  transfer of  its international banking
operations from Puerto Rico to the Republic of Ireland. This subsidiary,  Pfizer
International Bank Europe (PIBE), operates under a full banking license from the
Central   Bank  of  Ireland.  This  reorganization  and  transfer  was  made  in
anticipation  of  the  integration  and  unification  of  the  European  Union's
financial  markets. PIBE  makes loans  and accepts  deposits in  U.S. dollars in
international markets and  is an active  Euromarket lender with  a portfolio  of
loans,  floating  rate  notes and  Euronotes  of high  quality  corporations and
sovereigns. Loans are  made primarily on  a short- and  medium-term basis,  with
floating interest rates.

    The  Company's insurance  operation, The  Kodiak Company  Limited, reinsures
certain assets, inland transport and marine cargo of Pfizer subsidiaries.

INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS

    Outside the  United States,  the Company  has significant  operations,  both
direct  and through  distributors that, in  general, parallel  its United States
businesses. The  Company's  international  businesses are  subject,  in  varying
degrees,  to  a number  of risks  inherent  in carrying  on business  in certain
countries  outside  the  United  States,  including  possible   nationalization,
expropriation   and  other  restrictive  government   actions  such  as  capital
regulations. In addition, changes  in the values of  currencies take place  from
time  to time and can  be either favorable or unfavorable  to the net income and
net assets of the Company. It is impossible to predict future changes in foreign
exchange values  or  the effect  they  will have  on  the Company.  The  Company
actively manages its foreign exchange risk through routine transactional hedging
programs.  In  addition,  from time  to  time,  the Company  engages  in hedging
programs designed to protect  selected balance sheet  positions and future  cash
flow  exposures. Further information  with respect to  the financial instruments
used to carry  out these hedging  programs is incorporated  by reference to  the
note entitled "Financial Instruments and Concentrations of Credit Risk" found on
pages  42 and 43 of the Annual Report  to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended
December 31, 1994.

TAX MATTERS

    For tax  years  beginning  after  December  31,  1993,  the  Omnibus  Budget
Reconciliation  Act of 1993 ("OBRA") reduced by 40% the benefits accruing to the
Company under Section 936 of the Internal

                                       6
<PAGE>
Revenue Code (the "Puerto Rico tax  credit"). Such tax benefits will decline  an
additional  5% per year through 1998. For tax years beginning after December 31,
1997, the Puerto Rico tax credit will be fixed at 40% of the level allowed prior
to the enactment of OBRA.

    The Internal Revenue Service  ("IRS") is currently  auditing the years  1987
through  1989.  In  October 1994,  the  Company  received a  Notice  of Proposed
Adjustments from the IRS. The proposed  adjustments relate primarily to the  tax
accounting treatment of certain swaps and related transactions undertaken by the
Company  in 1987 and 1988. These transactions resulted in the receipt of cash in
those years, which the Company duly reported as income for tax purposes. In 1989
(in Notice 89-21), the IRS announced  that it believed cash received in  certain
swap transactions should be reported as income for tax purposes over the life of
the  swaps, rather than  when received. In  the case of  the Company, this would
cause some of the income to be reported  in years subject to the Tax Reform  Act
of  1986.  The IRS  proposed adjustment  involves  approximately $72  million in
federal taxes for the  years 1987 through 1989,  plus interest. If the  proposed
adjustment  is carried through to  the maturity of the  transactions in 1992, an
additional tax deficiency  of approximately  $86 million,  plus interest,  would
result.  The Company  disagrees with  the proposed  adjustment and  continues to
believe that its tax accounting treatment  for the transactions in question  was
proper.

    While it is impossible to determine the final disposition, the Company is of
the  opinion  that the  ultimate resolution  of  this matter  should not  have a
material adverse effect on the financial  position or the results of  operations
of the Company.

    The Company has satisfactorily resolved all issues with the Internal Revenue
Service  for the years through  1986. The Company believes  that its accrued tax
liabilities are adequate for all open years.

PATENTS AND RESEARCH

    The Company owns or is  licensed under a number  of patents relating to  its
products and manufacturing processes which, in the aggregate, are believed to be
of  material importance in its business. Based  on current product sales, and in
view of the vigorous competition with products sold by others, the Company  does
not  consider any single patent or related group of patents to be significant in
relation to the enterprise as a  whole, except for the Procardia XL,  Zithromax,
Diflucan, Zoloft and Norvasc patents. Procardia XL employs a novel drug delivery
system  developed  and  patented  by  Alza  Corporation.  The  Company  holds an
exclusive license  to  use this  delivery  system with  nifedipine  until  2003.
Zithromax  is a novel, broad spectrum macrolide antibiotic patented by Pliva and
exclusively licensed  to  the Company  for  sales  and marketing  in  all  major
countries  of the  world. The  U.S. product  patent on  Zithromax (azithromycin)
expires in 2005.  The Company holds  patents relating to  Diflucan, Zoloft,  and
Norvasc.

    The  Company spent in excess of $1.1  billion in 1994, $974 million in 1993,
and  $863  million  in  1992  on  Company-sponsored  research  and   development
throughout  the world.  In 1995, the  Company plans to  spend approximately $1.4
billion on  research and  development.  In 1991,  the Company  also  established
Pfizer Research and Development Company (PRDCO) in Ireland. In 1992, the Company
provided  PRDCO with  an initial capitalization  of approximately  $1 billion to
enable PRDCO  to  engage in  research  and development  through  a  cost-sharing
arrangement  with Pfizer Ltd. (a Pfizer U.K. subsidiary) in exchange for PRDCO's
receiving a portion of property rights  relating to the development of  specific
products.

    Competition  in  research, involving  the  development of  new  products and
processes  and  the   improvement  of  existing   products  and  processes,   is
particularly  significant and results  from time to time  in product and process
obsolescence. The development of new and  improved products is important to  the
Company's success in all areas of its business.

                                       7
<PAGE>
EMPLOYEES

    Approximately  40,800 persons were  employed by the  Company, as of December
31, 1994,  throughout  the world  as  follows: United  States,  15,700;  Europe,
11,600; Asia, 7,500; Canada/Latin America, 4,500; and Africa/Middle East, 1,500.
The Company has a good relationship with its employees.

REGULATION

    Most  of  the  Company's  businesses  are  subject  to  varying  degrees  of
governmental regulation in the countries in which operations are conducted. Such
regulation in the United States involves a more complex product approval process
than in many  other countries  and therefore  often results  in later  marketing
clearances  and  a  corresponding increase  in  the expense  of  introducing new
products in  the  United  States.  In  many  international  markets,  prices  of
pharmaceuticals are controlled by the government.

    The 1990 Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act requires pharmaceutical companies
to extend rebates to state Medicaid agencies based on each state's reimbursement
of  pharmaceutical products under the Medicaid program. The Veterans Health Care
Act, passed in 1992, requires manufacturers to provide discounts on purchases of
pharmaceutical products  by the  Department  of Veterans  Affairs (DVA)  and  by
certain entities funded by the Public Health Service. The Company's net sales in
1994  were reduced by Medicaid rebates  and rebates under related state programs
which amounted to $74 million. In addition, in 1994, Pfizer provided $56 million
in discounts to the federal government, primarily to the DVA and the  Department
of Defense, for drugs purchased in accordance with the Veterans Health Care Act.

    In  1990, the  FDA announced  a call for  data for  ingredients contained in
products bearing anti-plaque and  related claims. The call  for data is part  of
the  FDA's ongoing review, begun in 1972, of over-the-counter drug products. The
FDA is taking this administrative approach  to evaluate the safety and  efficacy
of  anti-plaque  products and  has  not proceeded  further  with regard  to 1989
regulatory letters it issued to the  Company and several other manufacturers  of
products  bearing anti-plaque claims. The Company  submitted its response to the
call for data relating to Plax, its pre-brushing dental rinse, on June 17, 1991.
This filing, as well  as filings of other  manufacturers, is still under  review
and is currently being considered by an FDA Advisory Panel.

    On  January 1, 1995,  the new European  Medicines Evaluation Agency ("EMEA")
instituted a new  drug-approval process for  the member states  of the  European
Union ("EU"). The EMEA provides two new drug-approval procedures. A "centralized
procedure"  allows for a single central approval that is valid in all EU states.
A "decentralized  procedure" provides  for  approval in  all EU  states  through
recognition  of a first approval in  one member state. The centralized procedure
must be used  for all  biotechnology products (including  products derived  from
recombinant  DNA technology, hybridoma  and monoclonal antibody  methods) and is
available at the applicant's option for  other products. While it is  envisioned
that it will take several years for EMEA to be fully operational, it is expected
that  a harmonized, centralized regulatory agency in Europe would offer benefits
to the human and veterinary drug industries.

    During 1994, Congress  continued debate on  reform of the  U.S. health  care
system.  While numerous health care reform  bills were introduced, including the
Administration's "Health Security Act," Congress  was unable to reach  consensus
on  an approach to  health care reform.  Health care has  been identified by the
current Republican  Congressional majority  as a  long-term priority  item.  The
focus  in Congress  on balancing  the Federal budget  may have  a more immediate
impact on  health care,  however,  if the  Medicare  and Medicaid  programs  are
targeted  for significant cuts.  Medicaid managed care  systems driven by budget
concerns are already under consideration in several states. If the Medicare  and
Medicaid  programs  implement managed  care systems  that severely  restrict the
access of program participants  to innovative new medicines,  this could have  a
significant adverse effect on the Company.

                                       8
<PAGE>
RAW MATERIALS AND ENERGY

    Raw  materials essential to the business of the Company and its subsidiaries
are generally obtainable from multiple  sources. The Company did not  experience
any significant restrictions on availability of raw materials or supplies during
the  last year and none is expected in 1995. Energy was available to the Company
in sufficient  quantities to  meet Company  requirements and  this condition  is
expected to continue in 1995.

ENVIRONMENT

    Certain of the Company's operations are affected by Federal, State and local
laws and regulations relating to environmental quality. The Company has made and
intends  to  continue  to  make  the  necessary  expenditures  for environmental
protection. Compliance with such laws and regulations is not expected to have  a
material  adverse effect on the financial  position or the results of operations
of the Company.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                     UNITED STATES      ALL OTHER     TOTAL
                                                    ----------------   -----------   --------
                                                              (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS)
<S>                                                 <C>                <C>           <C>
Environment-related capital expenditures:
  1994 Actual.....................................         $ 41.1         $13.7      $54.8
  1995 Estimated..................................           56.8           4.6       61.4
  1996 Estimated..................................           65.8           1.4       67.2
Other environmental-related expenses:
  1994 Actual.....................................           34.7          11.6       46.3
  1995 Estimated..................................           37.9          13.9       51.8
</TABLE>

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

    Following is a  summary description  of the Company's  principal plants  and
properties:

    Groton  Plant and Research  Laboratories -- These  facilities are located in
Groton, Connecticut,  and surrounding  towns, on  approximately 649  acres,  and
include  a number of buildings of one to eight stories, containing approximately
3,250,000 square feet of floor space either existing or under construction.

    Principal products produced  at Groton are  bulk pharmaceuticals,  specialty
chemicals  and food ingredients. Since acquiring  the plant in 1946, the Company
has made major improvements, including construction of production facilities,  a
powerhouse and generating equipment and a large research complex adjacent to the
plant. In 1992, major improvements to plant facilities were initiated, including
a process effluent and waste water treatment facility and a major pharmaceutical
capacity  replacement project.  Both projects  are expected  to be  completed by
1996. In  the research  complex, construction  of significant  new buildings  is
continuing,  with major enlargement (116,000  square feet) of the pharmaceutical
research and development facilities. These  improvements are also scheduled  for
completion  by  1996. Construction  was completed  in  1993 on  several research
expansions including  a  156,000-square-foot drug-safety  building  addition,  a
30,000-square-foot central-utilities building, and a 442,000-square-foot parking
facility.

    Brooklyn  Plant  --  The  Company's  site  in  Brooklyn,  New  York,  is  on
approximately 17 acres, including a number of buildings containing approximately
888,000 square  feet  of floor  space.  The primary  operations,  pharmaceutical
dosage-form manufacturing and packaging, are housed in an eight-story production
facility containing 545,000 square feet.

    Vigo Plant and Research Facility -- These facilities, located in Vigo County
near  Terre Haute, Indiana, are on a  site of approximately 2,100 acres owned in
fee and consist of a number of buildings of

                                       9
<PAGE>
one to five stories containing approximately 740,000 square feet of floor space.
Principal products  produced at  this plant  are pharmaceutical  products,  bulk
antibiotics, polydextrose and chymosin. Animal health research is also performed
on this site.

    Barceloneta  Plant -- Pfizer  Pharmaceuticals Inc. is  located on an 89-acre
property owned by  the Company at  Barceloneta, Puerto Rico.  An additional  151
acres  of  land adjacent  to this  property  were purchased  in 1991  for future
utilization. Acquisition of an adjacent  9-acre site was recently approved.  The
facilities  contain four major  manufacturing buildings (of  two to four floors)
and twelve support  buildings with a  total approximate area  of 403,000  square
feet  of  floor space;  and ten  additional  facilities (tank  farms, electrical
substations, cooling towers,  etc.) with  an approximate area  of 81,000  square
feet,  for a total  plant facilities area of  approximately 484,000 square feet.
The plant  houses organic  synthesis manufacturing,  pharmaceutical  dosage-form
manufacturing  and packaging facilities and the  required service areas, such as
bulk and  drum  liquid  storage,  laboratories,  utilities,  engineering  shops,
employee services and administration.

    Other  U.S.  Locations  -- The  Company  also operates  15  other production
facilities in the  United States and  has five regional  sales and  distribution
centers in various parts of the country which are owned in fee.

    The  Company's world  headquarters is located  at 235 East  42nd Street, New
York, NY.  The  Company  owns  this  33-story  office  building  which  contains
approximately 650,000 square feet. The building stands on slightly less than one
acre  of land which is leased under an  agreement expiring in 2057. In 1983, the
Company purchased a nine-story office building located at 219 East 42nd  Street,
containing  approximately 263,400 square  feet which is  immediately adjacent to
the Company's headquarters. The Company  also leases additional office space  in
New York City consisting of approximately 111,000 square feet.

    Outside  the United States  -- The Company's  major manufacturing facilities
outside the United  States are  located in Australia,  Belgium, Brazil,  France,
Germany,  Great Britain,  India, Ireland,  Italy, Japan,  Mexico and  Spain. The
plants in these twelve  countries have an aggregate  of over two million  square
feet  of floor space. Other  plants are located in  over 17 additional countries
located in various parts of the world.

    Sandwich -- A large medicinal and animal health research unit is located  in
Sandwich, England, where an 82,000-square-foot clinical-sciences building became
operational  in 1993  and a  99,000-square-foot animal-sciences  building became
operational in early 1994. Construction  is in progress on a  97,000-square-foot
pharmaceutical  sciences  building  due for  occupancy  in  1996 and  also  on a
120,000-square-foot administration and services building which is scheduled  for
completion in early 1995. An effluent treatment plant is also under construction
at this location.

    Ringaskiddy -- The Ringaskiddy facility in Ireland comprises three important
bulk  organic  synthesis manufacturing  plants,  two of  which  are now  in full
operation. The third  has just been  completed and is  scheduled for startup  in
early  1995. Ringaskiddy manufactures the majority  of bulk products required by
the International Pharmaceuticals Group in its worldwide dosage-form operations.
These manufacturing  plants  are  computer controlled  and  among  them  provide
considerable   flexibility  in  supplying  both   the  current  and  foreseeable
requirements  for  the   Group.  Ringaskiddy's   manufacturing  operations   are
self-supported by a modern and efficient infrastructure, providing such services
as   utilities,   quality   assurance,  environmental   treatment   systems  and
maintenance.

    Nagoya --  The  Nagoya facility  in  Japan encompasses  several  significant
individual  operations in addition to  its research function. Fermentation, bulk
organic synthesis and dosage-form manufacturing  are important to the supply  of
the  Company's operations  in Japan (the  country with the  second largest sales
after the United States) as well  as elsewhere in the world. Various  facilities
on   the  site  are  computer  controlled   and,  similar  to  Ringaskiddy,  the
manufacturing  operations  are  self-supported  by  utility  services,   quality
assurance, environmental treatment systems and maintenance functions.

                                       10
<PAGE>
    In  addition to  the facilities  outlined above,  research laboratories also
exist in France and Germany.

    The Company's  major manufacturing  facilities  in the  U.S. and  the  other
locations  referred  to  above  manufacture  various  products  for  all  of the
Company's  businesses.  These  properties  are  maintained  in  good   operating
condition  and the manufacturing facilities  have capacities considered adequate
to meet the Company's needs.

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

    The Company is  involved in a  number of claims  and litigations,  including
product  liability claims and litigations considered normal in the nature of its
businesses. These include  suits involving various  pharmaceutical and  hospital
products that allege either reaction to or injury from use of the product.

    As  previously  disclosed, numerous  claims  have been  brought  against the
Company and  Shiley Incorporated,  a wholly  owned subsidiary,  alleging  either
personal injury from fracture of 60(degree) or 70(degree) Shiley Convexo-Concave
(C/C)  heart valves, or anxiety that properly functioning implanted valves might
fracture in the future or, in a  few cases, personal injury from a  prophylactic
replacement of a functioning valve.

    In  an  attempt  to  resolve  all  claims  alleging  anxiety  that  properly
functioning valves might  fracture in  the future,  the Company  entered into  a
settlement agreement in January 1992 in Bowling v. Shiley et al., a case brought
in  the United  States District  Court for  the Southern  District of  Ohio that
establishes a worldwide  settlement class of  people with C/C  heart valves  and
their  spouses, except  those who  elect to  exclude themselves.  The settlement
provides for a Consultation Fund of $90 to $140 million (depending on the number
of claims  filed) from  which  valve recipients  who  make claims  will  receive
payments   that  are  intended   to  cover  their   cost  of  consultation  with
cardiologists or other health care providers  with respect to their valves.  The
settlement  agreement  establishes a  second  fund of  at  least $75  million to
support C/C valve-related research, including  the development of techniques  to
identify  valve recipients  who may  have significant  risk of  fracture, and to
cover the  unreimbursed medical  expenses that  valve recipients  may incur  for
certain  procedures  related  to  the valves.  The  Company's  obligation  as to
coverage of these  unreimbursed medical expenses  is not subject  to any  dollar
limitation.  Following  a hearing  on  the fairness  of  the settlement,  it was
approved by the court on August 19,  1992. An appeal of the court's approval  of
the  settlement was dismissed on December 20, 1993 by the United States Court of
Appeals for the  Sixth Circuit. A  motion for  rehearing en banc  was denied  on
March 8, 1994, and the U.S. Supreme Court denied a writ of certiorari on October
4,  1994. It is expected  that most of the costs  arising from the Bowling class
settlement will be covered by insurance and the proceeds of the sale of  certain
product  lines of the Shiley businesses in 1992. Of approximately 900 implantees
(and spouses of some  of them) who  opted out of  the Bowling settlement  class,
eight   have  cases   pending;  approximately   792  have   been  resolved;  and
approximately 100 have never filed a case or claim.

    Several claims relating  to elective  reoperations of  valve recipients  are
currently  pending. Some of these claims relate to elective reoperations covered
by the Bowling class settlement  described above, and, therefore, the  claimants
are  entitled  to  certain  benefits in  accordance  with  the  settlement. Such
claimants, if they irrevocably waive all of the benefits of the settlement,  may
pursue  separate litigation to recover damages in spite of the class settlement.
The Company is defending these claims.

    Generally, the  plaintiffs in  all of  the pending  heart valve  litigations
discussed  above seek money damages.  Based on the experience  of the Company in
defending these claims to date, including available insurance and reserves,  the
Company  is of the opinion that these actions should not have a material adverse
effect on the financial position or the results of operations of the Company.

    On September 30, 1993, Dairyland  Insurance Co., a carrier providing  excess
liability coverage ("excess carrier") in the early 1980s, commenced an action in
the  California Superior Court in Orange  County, seeking a declaratory judgment
that   it   was    not   obligated   to    provide   insurance   coverage    for

                                       11
<PAGE>
Shiley   heart  valve  liability  claims.  On  October  8,  1993,  Pfizer  filed
cross-complaints against Dairyland and  filed third-party complaints against  73
other  excess carriers who sold excess  liability policies covering periods from
1978 to 1985, seeking damages and declaratory judgments that they are  obligated
to pay for defense and indemnity to the extent not paid by other carriers.

    The   Company's  operations  are   subject  to  federal,   state  and  local
environmental  laws  and  regulations.  Under  the  Comprehensive  Environmental
Response  Compensation  and  Liability  Act of  1980,  as  amended  ("CERCLA" or
"Superfund"), the Company has been designated as a potentially responsible party
by the United  States Environmental  Protection Agency with  respect to  certain
waste  sites with which the Company may have had direct or indirect involvement.
Similar designations have been made  by some state environmental agencies  under
applicable  state superfund laws.  Such designations are  made regardless of the
extent of the Company's involvement. There are also claims that the Company is a
potentially responsible party or participant with respect to several waste sites
in Canada. Such claims have been made by the filing of a complaint, the issuance
of an administrative directive or order, or  the issuance of a notice or  demand
letter.  These  claims  are  in various  stages  of  administrative  or judicial
proceedings. They include demands  for recovery of  past governmental costs  and
for  future investigative or remedial actions.  In many cases, the dollar amount
of the claim is not specified. In most cases, claims have been asserted  against
a number of other entities for the same recovery or other relief as was asserted
against  the Company. The Company is  currently participating in remedial action
at a number of sites under federal, state and local laws.

    To the extent possible with the  limited amount of information available  at
this  time, the Company  has evaluated its responsibility  for costs and related
liability with  respect to  the  above sites  and is  of  the opinion  that  the
Company's  liability  with respect  to these  sites should  not have  a material
adverse effect on  the financial position  or the results  of operations of  the
Company. In arriving at this conclusion, the Company has considered, among other
things,  the payments that have been made with respect to the sites in the past;
the factors,  such  as  volume  and relative  toxicity,  ordinarily  applied  to
allocate defense and remedial costs at such sites; the probable costs to be paid
by the other potentially responsible parties; total projected remedial costs for
a  site,  if known;  existing  technology; and  the  currently enacted  laws and
regulations. The Company anticipates that a  portion of these costs and  related
liability will be covered by available insurance.

    Through  the early  1970s, Pfizer  (Minerals Division)  and Quigley Company,
Inc., a  wholly owned  subsidiary, sold  a minimal  amount of  one  construction
product  and several refractory  products containing some  asbestos. These sales
were discontinued thereafter.  Although these sales  represented a minor  market
share,  the Company has been named as one  of a number of defendants in numerous
lawsuits. These  actions, and  actions related  to the  Company's sale  of  talc
products  in  the  past,  claim  personal  injury  resulting  from  exposure  to
asbestos-containing products, and nearly all seek general and punitive  damages.
In  these  actions, the  Company  or Quigley  is typically  one  of a  number of
defendants, and  both are  members  of the  Center  for Claims  Resolution  (the
"CCR"), a joint defense organization that is defending these claims. The Company
and  Quigley are  responsible for varying  percentages of  defense and liability
payments for  all  members  of the  CCR.  Prior  to September  1990,  the  cases
involving  talc  products were  defended  by the  CCR,  but the  Company  is now
overseeing its own defense of these actions. A number of cases alleging property
damage from asbestos-containing products installed  in buildings have also  been
brought against Pfizer.

    On  January 15, 1993, a class action complaint and settlement agreement were
filed  in  the  United  States  District  Court  for  the  Eastern  District  of
Pennsylvania  involving  all personal  injury claims  by  persons who  have been
exposed to asbestos-containing products, but who  have not yet filed a  personal
injury  action  against the  20  members of  the  CCR. The  settlement agreement
establishes a claims-processing mechanism that will provide historic  settlement
values  upon proof  of impaired medical  condition as  well as claims-processing
rates over  10 years.  In addition,  the  shares allocated  to the  CCR  members
eliminate  joint  and  several  liability. The  court  has  determined  that the
settlement is fair and reasonable. Subsequently, the court entered an injunction
enforcing its determination. An  appeal from that injunction  is pending in  the
United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit.

                                       12
<PAGE>
    Concurrently  with the  filing of  the future  claims class  action, the CCR
settled approximately  16,360 personal  injury  cases on  behalf of  Pfizer  and
Quigley.  It is the  CCR's intention to  settle remaining and  opt-out cases and
claims on a similar basis to past settlements. The total pending number of cases
as of December 31, 1994 is 14,543 asbestos cases against Quigley, 5,643 asbestos
cases against Pfizer Inc. and 147 talc cases against Pfizer Inc.

    Costs incurred  by the  Company in  defending the  asbestos personal  injury
claims  and the property damage claims, as well as settlements and damage awards
in connection therewith, are  largely insured against  under policies issued  by
several  primary insurance carriers and a number of excess carriers. The Company
believes that its costs  incurred in defending and  ultimately disposing of  the
asbestos  personal injury claims, as well as the property damage claims, will be
largely covered by  insurance policies issued  by carriers that  have agreed  to
provide  coverage,  subject to  deductibles,  exclusions, retentions  and policy
limits. In connection  with the  future claims settlement,  the defendants  have
commenced  a  third-party  action  against  their  respective  excess  insurance
carriers that have not agreed to provide coverage seeking a declaratory judgment
that (a) the future claims settlement is fair and reasonable as to the carriers;
(b) the carriers had adequate notice of the future claims class settlement;  and
(c)  the carriers are obligated to provide coverage for asbestos personal injury
claims. Based on the  Company's experience in defending  the claims to date  and
the  amount of insurance coverage available, the  Company is of the opinion that
the actions  should  not  ultimately  have a  material  adverse  effect  on  the
financial position or the results of operations of the Company.

    In  connection with the divestiture of  Minerals Technologies Inc. (MTI), to
which the net  assets of  the Pfizer Minerals  and the  Quigley businesses  were
transferred,  Pfizer and Quigley  agreed to indemnify  MTI against any liability
with respect to  products manufactured and  sold prior to  October 30, 1992,  as
well as against liability for certain environmental matters.

    The  Company has been  named, together with  numerous other manufacturers of
brand name prescription drugs and  certain companies that distribute brand  name
prescription drugs, in suits brought by retail pharmacy companies in federal and
state  courts. The federal cases consist principally of a class action by retail
pharmacies (including approximately 30 named plaintiffs), as well as  additional
actions  by approximately  1,900 individual  retail pharmacies  (the "individual
actions"). These cases, all of  which have been or are  in the process of  being
transferred  to the  United States District  Court for the  Northern District of
Illinois and coordinated for pretrial  purposes, allege that the defendant  drug
manufacturers  have violated the Sherman Act in that they have unlawfully agreed
with each other (and, as alleged in some cases, with wholesalers) not to  extend
to  retail pharmacy companies  the same discounts  allegedly extended to managed
care  companies,  mail   order  pharmacies  and   certain  other   institutional
purchasers.  In addition, the  individual actions also  allege violations of the
Robinson-Patman  Act  in  that  the  manufacturers  allegedly  have   unlawfully
discriminated  against  retail pharmacy  companies  by not  extending  them such
discounts.

    The federal  court  has certified  a  class  consisting of  all  persons  or
entities  who, since October 15, 1989, bought prescription brand name drugs from
any manufacturer or wholesaler defendant, but specifically excluding  government
entities, mail order pharmacies, HMOs, hospitals, clinics and nursing homes. The
federal court had denied a motion for certification made by a purported class of
Alabama  consumers (in  a case  that was originally  filed in  state court, then
removed to federal court). In the  state cases, motions for class  certification
are  anticipated,  except in  one  Alabama action  still  in state  court, where
plaintiffs have stated  that they intend  to amend their  complaint to  withdraw
their class allegations.

    The  Company believes that  these cases are without  merit and is vigorously
defending them.

    FDA administrative proceedings relating to Plax are pending, principally  an
industry-wide call for data on all anti-plaque products by the FDA. The call for
data  notice specified that products that have been marketed for a material time
and to a  material extent may  remain on the  market pending FDA  review of  the
data,  provided the  manufacturer has  a good faith  belief that  the product is
generally recognized as safe  and effective and is  not misbranded. The  Company
believes that Plax satisfied these

                                       13
<PAGE>
requirements  and prepared a response  to the FDA's request,  which was filed on
June 17, 1991. This filing,  as well as the  filings of other manufacturers,  is
still  under  review  and  is  currently being  considered  by  an  FDA Advisory
Committee.

    A consolidated class  action on  behalf of persons  who allegedly  purchased
Pfizer  common stock during the March 24,  1989 through February 26, 1990 period
is pending in the United States District Court for the Southern District of  New
York.  This lawsuit, which commenced on July  13, 1990, alleges that the Company
and  certain  officers  and  former  directors  and  officers  violated  federal
securities  law  by  failing  to disclose  potential  liability  arising  out of
personal injury suits  involving Shiley  heart valves  and seeks  damages in  an
unspecified  amount.  The defendants  in this  action believe  that the  suit is
without merit and are vigorously defending it. A derivative action commenced  on
April  2, 1990 against  certain directors and officers  and former directors and
officers alleging breaches of fiduciary duty and other common law violations  in
connection  with  the manufacture  and distribution  of  Shiley heart  valves is
pending in the Superior Court,  Orange County, California. The complaint  seeks,
among other forms of relief, damages in an unspecified amount. The defendants in
the  action believe that the suit is  without merit and are vigorously defending
it.

    On January 28, 1993, a purported class action entitled Kearse v. Pfizer Inc.
and Howmedica Inc.  was commenced in  the United States  District Court for  the
Northern  District  of  Ohio. Howmedica  Inc.  ("Howmedica") is  a  wholly owned
subsidiary of the  Company. The  action sought monetary  and injunctive  relief,
including medical monitoring, on behalf of patients implanted with the Howmedica
P.C.A.  one-piece acetabular hip component,  which was manufactured by Howmedica
from 1983 to 1990.  The complaint alleged that  the prostheses were  defectively
designed  and manufactured and posed undisclosed  risks to implantees. On August
3, 1993, a virtually identical purported class action, Bradshaw/Davids v. Pfizer
Inc. and  Howmedica Inc.,  was  brought and  the  Kearse case  was  subsequently
voluntarily  dismissed. The district court has  denied the plaintiffs' motion to
certify the  case as  a class  action. The  Company believes  that the  suit  is
without merit and is vigorously defending it.

    During  1994,  seven purported  class  actions were  filed  against American
Medical Systems ("AMS") in federal  courts in South Carolina (later  transferred
to  Minnesota),  California,  Minnesota  (2), Indiana,  Ohio  and  Louisiana. In
January 1995, an additional purported class  action was filed in state court  in
Louisiana,  replicating the federal  suit. The California  and Indiana suits and
one Minnesota suit also name Pfizer Inc. as a defendant, based on its  ownership
of  AMS.  The  suits  seek  monetary  and  injunctive  relief  on  the  basis of
allegations that implantable  penile prostheses are  prone to unreasonably  high
rates  of mechanical failure  and/or various autoimmune diseases  as a result of
silicone materials.  On  September  30,  1994, the  federal  Judicial  Panel  on
Multidistrict  Litigation denied the various  plaintiffs' motions to consolidate
or coordinate the  cases for  pretrial proceedings.  On February  28, 1995,  the
Court  in  the  Ohio suit  conditionally  granted plaintiffs'  motion  for class
certification and on  March 3,  1995, the Court  in the  California suit  denied
plaintiffs'  motion for class certification. The  Company believes the suits are
without merit and is vigorously defending them.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

    Not applicable.

                                       14
<PAGE>
                                    PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
         MATTERS

    Information  required  by  this item  is  incorporated by  reference  to the
"Quarterly Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited)" found on page 53 and to
page 58 of the Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended  December
31, 1994.

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

SELECTED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME DATA

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                          ---------------------------------------------------------------------
                                             1994          1993            1992           1991          1990
                                          -----------  -------------  --------------  -------------  ----------
                                                      (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS, EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)
<S>                                       <C>          <C>            <C>             <C>            <C>
Net sales...............................  $   8,281.3  $  7,477.7     $  7,230.2      $  6,950.0     $  6,406.0
                                          -----------  -------------  --------------  -------------  ----------
                                          -----------  -------------  --------------  -------------  ----------
Income before cumulative effect of
 accounting changes.....................  $   1,298.4  $    657.5(a)  $  1,093.5(b)   $    722.1(d)  $    801.2
Cumulative effect of accounting
 changes................................      --            --            (282.6)(c)       --            --
                                          -----------  -------------  --------------  -------------  ----------
Net income..............................  $   1,298.4  $    657.5(a)  $    810.9(b)   $    722.1(d)  $    801.2
                                          -----------  -------------  --------------  -------------  ----------
                                          -----------  -------------  --------------  -------------  ----------
Earnings per common share (e):
Income before cumulative effect of
 accounting changes.....................  $      4.19  $     2.05     $     3.25      $     2.13     $     2.38
Cumulative effect of accounting
 changes................................      --            --              (.84)(c)       --            --
                                          -----------  -------------  --------------  -------------  ----------
Net income..............................  $      4.19  $     2.05     $     2.41      $     2.13     $     2.38
                                          -----------  -------------  --------------  -------------  ----------
                                          -----------  -------------  --------------  -------------  ----------
Cash dividends paid per common share
 (e)....................................  $      1.88  $     1.68     $     1.48      $     1.32     $     1.20
                                          -----------  -------------  --------------  -------------  ----------
                                          -----------  -------------  --------------  -------------  ----------
</TABLE>

SELECTED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET DATA

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                      DECEMBER 31,
                                          ---------------------------------------------------------------------
                                             1994          1993            1992           1991          1990
                                          -----------  -------------  --------------  -------------  ----------
                                                                  (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS)
<S>                                       <C>          <C>            <C>             <C>            <C>
Total assets............................  $  11,098.5  $  9,330.9     $  9,590.1      $  9,634.6     $  9,052.0
                                          -----------  -------------  --------------  -------------  ----------
                                          -----------  -------------  --------------  -------------  ----------
Long-term debt..........................  $     604.2  $    570.5     $    571.3      $    396.6     $    193.3
                                          -----------  -------------  --------------  -------------  ----------
                                          -----------  -------------  --------------  -------------  ----------
<FN>
------------------------
(a)  Includes  pre-tax  charges of  $690.2  million for  restructuring programs,
     $121.7 million of unusual items relating to the write-down of goodwill  and
     a pre-tax gain of $59.9 million on the sale of a business.
(b)  Includes a pre-tax gain of $258.6 million representing the gain on the sale
     of   certain  businesses  and   pre-tax  charges  of   $204.6  million  for
     restructuring, consolidating  and streamlining.  In addition,  it  includes
     pre-tax  curtailment gains of $56.5  million associated with postretirement
     benefits of divested operations.
(c)  Represents a pre-tax charge of $520.5 million ($312.6 million after-tax  or
     $.93  per  share)  for  the  cumulative  effect  of  adopting  Statement of
     Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 106, Employers' Accounting  for
     Postretirement  Benefits Other Than Pensions and  a credit of $30.0 million
     ($.09 per  share) for  the  cumulative effect  of  adopting SFAS  No.  109,
     Accounting for Income Taxes.
(d)  Includes an after-tax special charge of $195.0 million for potential future
     Shiley C/C heart valve fracture claims.
(e)  In  1991,  the Company  effected a  two-for-one stock  split of  its common
     stock. The year ended December 31,  1990 has been restated to reflect  this
     stock split.
</TABLE>

                                       15
<PAGE>
ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
         OF OPERATIONS

    Information  required  by  this item  is  incorporated by  reference  to the
"Financial Review" on pages 26 through  33 of the Annual Report to  Shareholders
for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994.

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

    Information  required  by  this item  is  incorporated by  reference  to the
"Independent Auditors' Report" found on  page 34 and to  pages 35 through 53  of
the Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994.

ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

    Not applicable.

                                    PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

    Information  with regard to the Directors of the Company, including those of
the following Executive Officers who are Directors, is incorporated by reference
to pages 3 through 7 of the Company's Proxy Statement dated March 16, 1995.

    The Board  of Directors  elects officers  at its  first meeting  after  each
annual  meeting of shareholders. The Board may  also elect officers from time to
time throughout the  year. Elected  officers of  the Company  hold office  until
their  successors  are  chosen  or until  their  earlier  death,  resignation or
removal.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                     AGE AS OF THE DATE OF THE
                                     COMPANY'S ANNUAL MEETING                     POSITIONS AND OFFICES
NAME                                      APRIL 27, 1995                       WITH COMPANY PRESENTLY HELD
---------------------------------  -----------------------------  ------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                <C>                            <C>
Brian W. Barrett.................                   55            Vice President; President, Northern Asia, Australasia
                                                                   and Canada -- International Pharmaceuticals Group
Edward C. Bessey.................                   60            Vice Chairman; President -- U.S. Pharmaceuticals
                                                                   Group; Director; Member of the Corporate Management
                                                                   Committee
M. Kenneth Bowler................                   52            Vice President -- Federal Government Relations
C. L. Clemente...................                   57            Senior Vice President -- Corporate Affairs; Secretary
                                                                   and Corporate Counsel; Member of the Corporate
                                                                   Management Committee
Bruce R. Ellig...................                   58            Vice President -- Personnel
Donald F. Farley.................                   52            Vice President; President -- Food Science Group
David M. Fitzgerald..............                   61            Vice President; Executive Vice President -- Hospital
                                                                   Products Group, and President, Howmedica Division
George A. Forcier................                   56            Vice President -- Quality Control
P. Nigel Gray....................                   56            Vice President; Executive Vice President -- Hospital
                                                                   Products Group, and President, Medical Devices
                                                                   Division
</TABLE>

                                       16
<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                     AGE AS OF THE DATE OF THE
                                     COMPANY'S ANNUAL MEETING                     POSITIONS AND OFFICES
NAME                                      APRIL 27, 1995                       WITH COMPANY PRESENTLY HELD
---------------------------------  -----------------------------  ------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                <C>                            <C>
William E. Harvey................                   64            Vice President; Treasurer (Retired on December 31,
                                                                   1994)
Gary N. Jortner..................                   50            Vice President; Group Vice President, Disease
                                                                   Management -- U.S. Pharmaceuticals Group
Karen L. Katen...................                   46            Vice President; Executive Vice President -- U.S.
                                                                   Pharmaceuticals Group
Alan G. Levin....................                   33            Treasurer
Henry A. McKinnell...............                   52            Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer;
                                                                   President -- Hospital Products Group; Member of the
                                                                   Corporate Management Committee
Brower A. Merriam................                   60            Vice President; President -- Animal Health Group
John C. Mesloh...................                   60            Vice President -- Corporate Purchasing
Victor P. Micati.................                   55            Vice President; President, Europe -- International
                                                                   Pharmaceuticals Group
Paul S. Miller...................                   56            Senior Vice President; General Counsel; Member of the
                                                                   Corporate Management Committee
George M. Milne, Jr..............                   51            Vice President; President -- Central Research
Robert Neimeth...................                   59            Executive Vice President; President -- International
                                                                   Pharmaceuticals Group; Member of the Corporate
                                                                   Management Committee
John F. Niblack..................                   56            Executive Vice President -- Research and Development;
                                                                   Member of the Corporate Management Committee
William J. Robison...............                   59            Vice President; President -- Consumer Health Care
                                                                   Group
Herbert V. Ryan..................                   58            Controller
Craig Saxton.....................                   52            Vice President; Executive Vice President -- Central
                                                                   Research
Gerald H. Schulze................                   47            Vice President -- Pharmaceutical Planning
Robert L. Shafer.................                   62            Vice President -- Public Affairs
David L. Shedlarz................                   47            Vice President -- Finance
William C. Steere, Jr............                   58            Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer;
                                                                   Director; Member of the Corporate Management
                                                                   Committee
Frederick W. Telling.............                   43            Vice President -- Corporate Strategic Planning and
                                                                   Policy
</TABLE>

                                       17
<PAGE>
                  BUSINESS EXPERIENCE OF NON-DIRECTOR OFFICERS

BRIAN W. BARRETT

    Mr. Barrett  joined  Pfizer Canada  in  1966,  where he  served  in  various
financial   positions,  including  Chief  Financial   Officer  of  the  Canadian
subsidiary.  In  1971,   he  was  appointed   Assistant  Controller  of   Pfizer
International  in New York;  in 1973, Director of  International Planning and in
1976, Director of Planning. In 1980, Mr. Barrett was appointed Vice President --
Corporate Strategic Planning; in 1983, he  became Vice President -- Finance  for
Pfizer  International; in  1985, President --  Africa/ Middle East  and in 1991,
President -- Asia/Canada. In 1992, Mr. Barrett was elected Vice President of the
Company. He assumed  the responsibilities  of his  present position,  President,
Northern Asia, Australasia and Canada -- International Pharmaceuticals Group, in
1993.

M. KENNETH BOWLER

    Mr.  Bowler  joined the  Company in  1989,  and has  been Vice  President --
Federal Government Relations since  1990. He formerly  served as Staff  Director
for the House Ways and Means Committee.

C. L. CLEMENTE

    Mr.  Clemente joined the Company  in 1964 and has  served as Vice President;
General Counsel and Secretary, Pfizer International,  Inc. He has also held  the
position  of Vice  President of Coty,  formerly Pfizer's  fragrance and cosmetic
division. In 1983,  he was  named Associate General  Counsel of  Pfizer Inc.  In
1986,  he  was elected  Vice  President; General  Counsel  and Secretary  of the
Company. He became a member of the Corporate Management Committee of the Company
in 1991. In  1992, he was  elected Senior Vice  President -- Corporate  Affairs;
Secretary and Corporate Counsel.

BRUCE R. ELLIG

    Mr.  Ellig joined  the Company  in 1960. He  progressed through  a number of
positions of  increasing  responsibility  in the  Corporate  Personnel  Division
including Vice President -- Compensation and Benefits in 1978 and Vice President
--  Employee  Relations in  1983.  In 1985,  he  was elected  Vice  President --
Personnel of the Company.

DONALD F. FARLEY

    Mr. Farley  joined  the Company  in  1965  as Production  Engineer  for  the
Chemical  Division.  After  serving  in  a  number  of  positions  of increasing
responsibility within the Chemical  Division, he was  named its Vice  President,
Operations in 1982. In 1986 he became Senior Vice President of the Division, and
in  1988, Executive Vice  President -- Specialty Chemicals.  In 1992, Mr. Farley
was named President of the Food Science Group and in February 1993 was elected a
Vice President of the Company.

DAVID M. FITZGERALD

    Mr.  Fitzgerald  joined  the  Company's   Howmedica  division  in  1970   as
Controller.  In 1974, he  was promoted to Corporate  Controller of Howmedica. He
served as Assistant General Manager and Vice President -- General Manager and in
1980 he assumed responsibility for Howmedica's worldwide orthopedics operations.
In 1982, he was appointed Senior Vice President of Howmedica. In 1984, he became
President of Howmedica and Senior Vice President of Hospital Products. In  1988,
he  became Executive Vice President of the Hospital Products Group. In 1992, Mr.
Fitzgerald was elected Vice President of the Company.

                                       18
<PAGE>
GEORGE A. FORCIER

    Dr. Forcier joined the  Company in 1966 as  Analytical Research Chemist  for
the  Company's  Medical Research  Laboratories. In  1970,  he was  named Project
Leader, in  1979 Manager,  and in  1981, Assistant  Director of  the  Analytical
Research  Department. In 1986, he was  named Director of the Analytical Research
and Development Department and  in 1991, he became  Group Director. Dr.  Forcier
was  elected Vice President -- Quality Control of the Company, effective January
1, 1994.

P. NIGEL GRAY

    Mr. Gray joined the  Company in 1975 as  Export Sales Manager for  Howmedica
U.K., Ltd. in England and progressed through a number of positions of increasing
responsibility before being named Vice President, Marketing for Howmedica Europe
in  1983. In 1987, Mr. Gray became  Senior Vice President and General Manager of
Howmedica  International  in  Staines,  England,  then  President  of  Howmedica
International  in 1992. In 1993, he came to New York as Executive Vice President
of the Company's Hospital Products Division and President of the Medical Devices
Division and in October 1994, he was elected a Vice President of the Company.

WILLIAM E. HARVEY

    Mr. Harvey  joined the  Company in  1966 as  Assistant to  the Treasurer  of
Pfizer   International.  In   1969,  he   was  appointed   Assistant  Treasurer,
International and in  1981, he  became Assistant  Treasurer of  the Company.  In
1990, Mr. Harvey was elected Vice President; Treasurer of the Company and served
in this capacity until his retirement on December 31, 1994.

GARY N. JORTNER

    Mr.  Jortner joined  the Company  in 1973  as a  Systems Analyst  for Pfizer
Pharmaceuticals. In 1974,  he transferred to  product management and  progressed
through  a series of promotions  that resulted in his  being named Group Product
Manager for Pfizer Labs in 1978. In 1981, he became Vice President of  Marketing
for  Pfizer Labs. In 1986,  he was promoted to  Vice President of Operations for
Labs. In 1991,  he was  named Vice President  and General  Manager, Pfizer  Labs
Division.  In 1992, Mr.  Jortner was elected  Vice President of  the Company. In
1994, he was named Vice President;  Group Vice President, Disease Management  --
U.S. Pharmaceuticals Group.

KAREN L. KATEN

    Ms.  Katen joined the  Company in 1974  as a Marketing  Associate for Pfizer
Pharmaceuticals. Beginning in 1975, she progressed through a number of positions
of increasing  responsibility  in  the Roerig  product  management  group  which
resulted  in  her  being named  Group  Product  Manager in  1978.  In  1980, she
transferred to Pfizer Labs as a Group Product Manager and later became Director,
Product Management.  In  1983, she  returned  to  Roerig as  Vice  President  --
Marketing.  In 1986, she was named Vice  President and General Manager -- Roerig
Division. In 1992, she was elected Vice  President of the Company. In May  1993,
Ms. Katen became Executive Vice President of the U.S. Pharmaceuticals Group.

ALAN G. LEVIN

    Mr.  Levin joined the Company  in 1987 as Senior  Operations Auditor for the
Controllers Division, and in 1988 joined the Treasurer's Division as Controller,
Pfizer International Bank. He became Director -- Finance, International in  1991
and  in 1993 was named Senior Director -- Finance, Asia. On January 1, 1995, Mr.
Levin was elected Treasurer of the Company.

                                       19
<PAGE>
HENRY A. MCKINNELL

    Dr. McKinnell joined the Company in 1971. In 1977, he became Vice  President
-- Area Manager for Pfizer Asia. In 1979, he became Executive Vice President and
in  1981,  President of  Pfizer  Asia. In  1984,  Dr. McKinnell  was  named Vice
President -- Corporate  Strategic Planning and  in 1986, he  was elected a  Vice
President  of the  Company. In  1990, Dr.  McKinnell became  the Company's Chief
Financial Officer and  was named Vice  President -- Finance  of the Company.  In
1992,  he became a member of the  Corporate Management Committee of the Company.
In that  same  year, he  became  Executive Vice  President  of the  Company  and
President of the Company's Hospital Products Group, in addition to remaining the
Company's Chief Financial Officer.

BROWER A. MERRIAM

    Mr.  Merriam joined the Company in 1969  as Country Manager for Peru, and in
1971, he was appointed Country Manager for Argentina. In 1973, he was  appointed
President  of  Pfizer  Latin  America.  He  was  appointed  Director  of  Pfizer
International in 1984, and in 1988  assumed the position of President for  Latin
America,  Southeast Asia,  Indo-Pacific and  Canada. In  1990, he  was appointed
Executive Vice President of Pfizer  International. In 1991, he became  Executive
Vice  President  of  the Animal  Health  Group  and in  1992  was  appointed its
President. Mr. Merriam was elected a Vice President of the Company in 1992.

JOHN C. MESLOH

    Mr. Mesloh joined  Howmedica, Inc. as  Controller in 1973.  In 1974, he  was
appointed  Vice President -- Finance and Treasurer  of Howmedica, and in 1980 he
was elected Corporate Controller of the Company. In 1989, Mr. Mesloh was elected
Vice President of the Company. Mr. Mesloh was elected Vice President,  Corporate
Purchasing, effective January 1993.

VICTOR P. MICATI

    Mr.  Micati joined the Company in 1965  as a Management Candidate for Pfizer
Labs. Beginning  in  1966,  he  progressed through  a  number  of  positions  of
increasing  responsibility in  the Pfizer Labs  Division, which  resulted in his
being named  Vice  President  -- Marketing  in  1971.  In 1972  he  became  Vice
President  of Pharmaceutical  Development for  International Pharmaceuticals. In
1980, he was named Executive Vice  President of the European Management  Center.
He  returned to the International Pharmaceutical Division in 1984 as Senior Vice
President, and in 1990 was named  President, Pfizer Europe. In 1992, Mr.  Micati
was elected Vice President of the Company.

PAUL S. MILLER

    Mr.  Miller  joined  the Company  in  1971  and was  appointed  an Assistant
Secretary and Assistant General Counsel in 1975. In 1983, he was named Associate
General Counsel.  In  1986, he  became  Secretary of  the  Corporate  Management
Committee  and in that same year he  was elected Vice President; General Counsel
of the Company. He became a member of the Corporate Management Committee of  the
Company  in  1991. In  1992, Mr.  Miller  was elected  Senior Vice  President --
General Counsel of the Company.

GEORGE M. MILNE, JR.

    Dr. Milne joined the Company  in 1970 as a  Research Scientist. In 1973,  he
was named Senior Research Scientist and progressed through a number of positions
of  increasing responsibility which resulted in  his being named Vice President,
Research and Development Operations  in 1985. In 1988,  Dr. Milne became  Senior
Vice  President, Research and Development, and in September 1993, he was elected
Vice President of the Company and President, Central Research.

                                       20
<PAGE>
ROBERT NEIMETH

    Mr. Neimeth joined the Company in 1962 as a management trainee, subsequently
serving  as  Country  Manager,   Nigeria,  as  Vice  President,   Pharmaceutical
Development  in Asia, and then as President of Pfizer Asia from 1972 to 1977. He
then served as Vice President and Director of Operations for Pfizer Labs in  the
U.S. In 1980 he became President, Pfizer Europe and, in 1983, Mr. Neimeth became
a  Vice President of  the Company. In  1984, he was  also elected Executive Vice
President of Pfizer  International Subsidiaries and  assumed supervision of  the
pharmaceutical  business  in Africa  and  the Middle  East,  in addition  to his
responsibilities  in  Europe.   In  1990,   he  was   named  President,   Pfizer
International  Subsidiaries. In  1991, he  became Chairman,  President and Chief
Executive Officer  of Pfizer  International.  He also  became  a member  of  the
Corporate  Management Committee of the Company in  1991. In 1992, he was elected
Executive  Vice  President   of  the  Company,   and  President,   International
Pharmaceuticals  Group. In this  capacity, Mr. Neimeth  supervises the Company's
International Pharmaceutical and worldwide Animal Health operations.

JOHN F. NIBLACK

    Dr. Niblack joined the Company in 1967 and held various management positions
in new-drug  discovery  operations  before  being  appointed  in  1984  as  Vice
President,  Medicinal Products Research and in 1986 as Executive Vice President,
Central Research. In 1990, Dr. Niblack  was named President -- Central  Research
and  elected a Vice President of the Company. In September 1993, Dr. Niblack was
elected Executive  Vice President  --  Research and  Development, and  became  a
member of the Corporate Management Committee of the Company.

WILLIAM J. ROBISON

    Mr.  Robison joined the Company in 1961 as a Sales Representative for Pfizer
Labs. After serving in a number of positions of increasing responsibility in the
Labs division, he was appointed Vice President of Sales in 1980, and Senior Vice
President, Pfizer Labs  in 1986.  In 1990 he  was appointed  Vice President  and
General  Manager  of  Pratt Pharmaceuticals,  and  in 1992  assumed  his present
position as President of  the Consumer Health Care  Group. In 1992, Mr.  Robison
was also elected Vice President of the Company.

HERBERT V. RYAN

    Mr.  Ryan joined the Company in 1962  as Supervisor, Capital Assets. In 1964
he was named Supervisor, Corporate Ledger and in 1966 became Director, Corporate
Accounting. In 1981 he was appointed Assistant Controller, Corporate Accounting.
In 1993, Mr. Ryan was elected Controller.

CRAIG SAXTON

    Dr. Saxton joined the Company in 1976 as Clinical Projects Director for  the
Central  Research Division of Pfizer Ltd. in  Sandwich, England. In 1981, he was
named Senior Associate Medical Director for the International Division of Pfizer
Inc., and in 1982  became the Division's Vice  President, Medical Director.  Dr.
Saxton  became Senior Vice President, Clinical  Research and Development for the
Central Research Division  in 1988. In  September 1993, he  was named  Executive
Vice  President --  Central Research  and was  elected a  Vice President  of the
Company.

GERALD H. SCHULZE

    Mr. Schulze joined the Company in  1971 as a Medical Service  Representative
for  Roerig. He served in a number  of positions of increasing responsibility in
the  Pharmaceuticals  and  International  divisions  before  being  named   Vice
President -- Business Development for the Consumer Products division in 1985. In
1987, he was named Vice President -- Business Development for Hospital Products,
and  in 1988,  became that  division's Senior  Vice President.  In 1992,  he was
elected a Vice President of the  Company and was named Executive Vice  President
for the Hospital Products Group

                                       21
<PAGE>
and President of the Medical Devices Division. In November 1993, Mr. Schulze was
elected  Vice President, Corporate Strategic Planning of the Company. In October
1994, he was elected Vice President, Pharmaceutical Planning.

ROBERT L. SHAFER

    Mr. Shafer  joined the  Company in  1966  as Assistant  to the  Director  of
Government  Relations.  In  1967,  he became  Associate  Director  of Government
Relations and in 1968, Director of Government Relations. In 1973, Mr. Shafer was
elected a Vice President of the Company. In 1982, he was elected Vice  President
-- Public Affairs.

DAVID L. SHEDLARZ

    Mr.  Shedlarz joined the Company in 1976 as Senior Financial Analyst for the
Pharmaceuticals Division. After serving in  a number of positions of  increasing
responsibility,  he was named Production Controller  in 1979 and Assistant Group
Controller in 1981. In 1984,  he became Group Controller  and in 1989 was  named
Vice  President of Finance for the  Pharmaceuticals Group. In 1992, Mr. Shedlarz
was elected Vice President -- Finance of the Company.

FREDERICK W. TELLING

    Dr. Telling joined the  Company in 1977 as  Associate Personnel Manager  for
the  Pharmaceuticals Division  and progressed through  a number  of positions of
increasing responsibility  before  being  named Director  of  Planning  for  the
Pharmaceuticals  Division in 1981. In  1987, he was named  the Vice President of
Planning and Policy, and in 1994,  Senior Vice President of Planning and  Policy
for  the Company's U.S. Pharmaceuticals Group.  In October 1994, Dr. Telling was
elected Vice President, Corporate Strategic Planning and Policy.

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

    Information  with  regard  to  executive  compensation  is  incorporated  by
reference to pages 8 through 19 of the Company's Proxy Statement dated March 16,
1995.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

    Information  with regard to security  ownership of certain beneficial owners
and management  is  incorporated  by reference  to  pages  2 through  7  of  the
Company's Proxy Statement dated March 16, 1995.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

    Information with regard to certain relationships and related transactions is
incorporated  by reference to pages  20 and 21 of  the Company's Proxy Statement
dated March 16, 1995.

                                    PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

    The following is a  list of all Financial  Statement Schedules and  Exhibits
filed as a part of this Annual Report.

    (a)(1)  Financial Statements

            See Part II

    (a)(2)  Financial Statement Schedule

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                        PAGE
                                                                        ----
<S>                                                                     <C>
Schedule II -- Valuation and Qualifying Accounts......................   26
</TABLE>

    Schedules  not listed above have  been omitted for the  reason that they are
inapplicable or  not required  or  the information  is  given elsewhere  in  the
financial  statements. The  financial statements  of unconsolidated subsidiaries
are omitted on the basis that  these subsidiaries, considered in the  aggregate,
would not constitute a significant subsidiary.

                                       22
<PAGE>
    (a)(3)  Exhibits

<TABLE>
<S>        <C>        <C>
 3(i)      --         Restated  Certificate of  Incorporation of the  Company, as  of April 1991
                      (incorporated by reference to Exhibit  4(a) of Form S-8, Registration  No.
                      33-44053),  as corrected by the Certificate  of Correction of the Restated
                      Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (as filed in the Office of the
                      Secretary of State of  the State of  Delaware on January  3, 1995, and  as
                      filed herewith).
 3(ii)     --         By-laws  of  the  Company,  as  amended  June  23,  1994  (incorporated by
                      reference to Exhibit 3(ii) of the Company's Form 8-K Current Report  dated
                      June 23, 1994).
10(a)      --         Executive Compensation Plans and Arrangements:

                      10.1  -- Form of Severance Agreement for Certain Executive Officers of the
                      Company.
                      10.2  --   Pfizer   Inc.  Performance-Contingent   Share   Award   Program
                      (incorporated  by reference  to Exhibit  4 of  Form S-8,  Registration No.
                      33-56977).
10(b)      --         Stock and Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of November 23, 1994, between
                      SmithKline Beecham  plc  and  Pfizer Inc.,  as  amended  (incorporated  by
                      reference  to Exhibit 2 of the Company's Form 8-K Report dated February 7,
                      1995).
11         --         Computation of Earnings Per  Common Share and  Fully Diluted Earnings  Per
                      Common Share.
12         --         Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.
13(a)      --         Portions  of the Annual  Report of the  Company for the  fiscal year ended
                      December 31, 1994 which are expressly incorporated by reference herein.
13(b)      --         Copy of the  Annual Report of  the Pfizer Savings  and Investment Plan  on
                      Form 11-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994.
13(c)      --         Copy  of the Annual Report  of the Pfizer Savings  and Investment Plan for
                      Employees Resident in Puerto Rico on  Form 11-K for the fiscal year  ended
                      December 31, 1994.
21         --         Subsidiaries of the Registrant.
23         --         Report  and consent of KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, independent certified public
                      accountants.
27         --         Financial Data Schedule
</TABLE>

    (b) The Company filed a report on Form 8-K dated December 13, 1994.

    Exhibits to the Form 10-K are available upon request at the charges set  out
below.  Requests should be  directed to C. L.  Clemente, Secretary, Pfizer Inc.,
235 East 42nd Street, New York, N.Y. 10017.

<TABLE>
<S>                         <C>
  Exhibit 13(b)...........  $    1.40
  Exhibit 13(c)...........       1.30
  Exhibit 21..............        .60
</TABLE>

                                       23
<PAGE>
                                   SIGNATURES

    Pursuant  to  the requirements  of  Section 13  or  15(d) of  the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                          Pfizer Inc.
                                          (Registrant)

                                          By          /s/ C.L. CLEMENTE

                                             -----------------------------------
                                                        C.L. Clemente
                                                         (Secretary)

Dated: March 23, 1995

    Pursuant to the requirements  of the Securities Exchange  Act of 1934,  this
report  has  been  signed  below  by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                   SIGNATURES                                        TITLE                            DATE
------------------------------------------------  -------------------------------------------  ------------------
<C>                                               <S>                                          <C>

              /s/ WILLIAM C. STEERE, JR.
     --------------------------------------       Chairman of the Board, Director (Principal     March 23, 1995
            William C. Steere, Jr.)                Executive Officer)

                /s/ HENRY A. MCKINNELL
     --------------------------------------       Executive Vice President (Principal            March 23, 1995
              (Henry A. McKinnell)                 Financial Officer)

                   /s/ HERBERT V. RYAN
     --------------------------------------       Controller (Principal Accounting Officer)      March 23, 1995
               (Herbert V. Ryan)

                  /s/ EDWARD C. BESSEY
     --------------------------------------       Director                                       March 23, 1995
               (Edward C. Bessey)

                  /s/ M. ANTHONY BURNS
     --------------------------------------       Director                                       March 23, 1995
               (M. Anthony Burns)

     --------------------------------------       Director                                       March   , 1995
              (Grace J. Fippinger)

                  /s/ GEORGE B. HARVEY
     --------------------------------------       Director                                       March 23, 1995
               (George B. Harvey)

                /s/ CONSTANCE J. HORNER
     --------------------------------------       Director                                       March 23, 1995
             (Constance J. Horner)
</TABLE>

                                       24
<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                   SIGNATURES                                        TITLE                            DATE
------------------------------------------------  -------------------------------------------  ------------------
<C>                                               <S>                                          <C>
               /s/ STANLEY O. IKENBERRY
     --------------------------------------       Director                                       March 23, 1995
             (Stanley O. Ikenberry)

                /s/ THOMAS G. LABRECQUE
     --------------------------------------       Director                                       March 23, 1995
             (Thomas G. Labrecque)

                    /s/ JAMES T. LYNN
     --------------------------------------       Director                                       March 23, 1995
                (James T. Lynn)

                    /s/ PAUL A. MARKS
     --------------------------------------       Director                                       March 23, 1995
                (Paul A. Marks)

               /s/ EDMUND T. PRATT, JR.
     --------------------------------------       Director                                       March 23, 1995
             (Edmund T. Pratt, Jr.)

                 /s/ FRANKLIN D. RAINES
     --------------------------------------       Director                                       March 23, 1995
              (Franklin D. Raines)

                  /s/ FELIX G. ROHATYN
     --------------------------------------       Director                                       March 23, 1995
               (Felix G. Rohatyn)

                  /s/ JEAN-PAUL VALLES
     --------------------------------------       Director                                       March 23, 1995
               (Jean-Paul Valles)
</TABLE>

                                       25
<PAGE>
                      PFIZER INC. AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES

                SCHEDULE II -- VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                           ADDITIONS
                                                                   -------------------------
                                                     BALANCE AT    CHARGED TO    CHARGED TO                      BALANCE
                                                    BEGINNING OF    COSTS AND       OTHER                       AT END OF
DESCRIPTION                                            PERIOD       EXPENSES     ACCOUNTS(B)   DEDUCTIONS(A)(C)  PERIOD
--------------------------------------------------  ------------   -----------   -----------   --------------   ---------
                                                                            (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS)
<S>                                                 <C>            <C>           <C>           <C>              <C>
Year ended December 31, 1994
  Valuation and qualifying accounts deducted from
   assets to which they apply
      Allowance for doubtful accounts.............     $40.6          $11.5         $--           $ 8.0           $44.1
                                                       -----          -----           ---         -----         ---------
                                                       -----          -----           ---         -----         ---------
      Allowance for credit losses.................     $13.5          $ 7.0         $--           $--             $20.5
                                                       -----          -----           ---         -----         ---------
                                                       -----          -----           ---         -----         ---------
Year ended December 31, 1993
  Valuation and qualifying accounts deducted from
   assets to which they apply
      Allowance for doubtful accounts.............     $36.2          $12.1         $ 0.4         $ 8.1           $40.6
                                                       -----          -----           ---         -----         ---------
                                                       -----          -----           ---         -----         ---------
      Allowance for credit losses.................     $14.5          $--           $--           $ 1.0(d)        $13.5
                                                       -----          -----           ---         -----         ---------
                                                       -----          -----           ---         -----         ---------
Year ended December 31, 1992
  Valuation and qualifying accounts deducted from
   assets to which they apply
      Allowance for doubtful accounts.............     $38.8          $11.5         $ 0.5         $14.6(e)        $36.2
                                                       -----          -----           ---         -----         ---------
                                                       -----          -----           ---         -----         ---------
      Allowance for credit losses.................     $11.5          $ 3.0         $--           $--             $14.5
                                                       -----          -----           ---         -----         ---------
                                                       -----          -----           ---         -----         ---------
<FN>
------------------------

(a)  Includes impact of translation of foreign currencies.

(b)  Recoveries of accounts previously written off.

(c)  Uncollectible accounts charged against allowance accounts.

(d)  Decrease in allowance arising from lower loan loss exposure.

(e)  Includes $6.4 million of adjustments arising from businesses divested.
</TABLE>

                                       26
<PAGE>
    The  following trademarks,  found in  this report,  are among  those used by
Pfizer Inc.

CARDURA (DOXAZOSIN MESYLATE)
DIFLUCAN (FLUCONAZOLE)
ENABLE (TENIDAP)
ENABLEX (TENIDAP)
E5 (ANTI-ENDOTOXIN ANTIBODY)
FELDENE (PIROXICAM)
GLUCOTROL (GLIPIZIDE)
GLUCOTROL XL (GLIPIZIDE GITS)
NORVASC (AMLODIPINE BESYLATE)
PROCARDIA (NIFEDIPINE)
PROCARDIA XL (NIFEDIPINE GITS)
REACTINE (CETIRIZINE)
UNASYN (SULBACTAM/AMPICILLIN)
ZITHROMAX (AZITHROMYCIN)
ZOLOFT (SERTRALINE)
ABG
ALTA
DURACON
GAMMA
LUHR
PARATREND
P.C.A.
SIMPLEX
LITESSE (POLYDEXTROSE)
ADVOCIN (DANOFLOXACIN)
AVIAX (SEMDURAMICIN)
BANMINTH (PYRANTEL TARTRATE)
BOVISHIELD
COXISTAC (SALINOMYCIN)
DECTOMAX (DORAMECTIN)
FILARIBITS (DIETHYLCARBAMAZINE CITRATE)
LEUKOCELL
MECADOX (CARBADOX)
NEMEX (PYRANTEL PAMOATE)
RESPISURE
STAFAC (VIRGINIAMYCIN)
TERRAMYCIN LA-200 (OXYTETRACYCLINE)
TM/LA (OXYTETRACYCLINE)
PARATECT (MORANTEL TARTRATE)
POSISTAC (SALINOMYCIN)
VALBAZEN (ALBENDAZOLE)
VANGUARD
BARBASOL
BEN-GAY
DAILY CARE FROM DESITIN
DESITIN
PLAX
RID
UNISOM (DOXYLAMINE SUCCINATE)
UNISOM SLEEPGELS
VISINE (TETRAHYDROZOLINE HCI)
<PAGE>
                                 EXHIBIT INDEX

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
  EXHIBIT NO.                                          DESCRIPTION                                           PAGE
---------------  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  ---------
<C>              <S>                                                                                       <C>
         3(i)    Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company, as of April 1991 (incorporated by
                  reference to Exhibit 4(a) of Form S-8, Registration No. 33-44053) as corrected by the
                  Certificate of Correction of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company
                  (as filed in the Office of the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on January
                  3, 1995, and as filed herewith)........................................................
         3(ii)   By-laws of the Company, as amended June 23, 1994 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                  3(ii) of the Company's Form 8-K Current Report dated June 23, 1994)....................
        10(a)    Executive Compensation Plans and Arrangements...........................................
        10.1     Form of Severance Agreement for Certain Executive Officers of the Company...............
        10.2     Pfizer Inc. Performance-Contingent Share Award Program (incorporated by reference to
                  Exhibit 4 of Form S-8, Registration No. 33-56977)......................................
        10(b)    Stock and Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as of November 23, 1994, between SmithKline
                  Beecham plc and Pfizer Inc., as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2 of the
                  Company's Form 8-K Report dated February 7, 1995)......................................
        11       Computation of Earnings Per Common Share and Fully Diluted Earnings Per Common Share....
        12       Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.......................................
        13(a)    Portions of the Annual Report of the Company for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994
                  which are expressly incorporated by reference herein...................................
        13(b)    Copy of the Annual Report of the Pfizer Savings and Investment Plan on Form 11-K for the
                  fiscal year ended December 31, 1994....................................................
        13(c)    Copy of the Annual Report of the Pfizer Savings and Investment Plan for Employees
                  Resident in Puerto Rico on Form 11-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994.......
        21       Subsidiaries of the Registrant..........................................................
        23       Report and consent of KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, independent certified public accountants...
        27       Financial Data Schedule.................................................................
</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-3.I
<SEQUENCE>2
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 3(I)
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                           CERTIFICATE OF CORRECTION
                 OF THE RESTATED CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION
                                      OF
                                  PFIZER INC.

      Pfizer Inc., a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the
State of Delaware (the "Corporation"), pursuant to Section 103(f) of the General
Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, hereby certifies:

      FIRST:  That the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation
(the "Restated Certificate") which was filed with the Secretary of State of the
State of Delaware on April 30, 1991 is an inaccurate record of the corporate
action therein referred to and requires correction as permitted by Section
103(f) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.

      SECOND:  The inaccuracy or defect in said Restated Certificate to be
corrected is that the terms of the Series A Junior Preferred Stock, as set forth
in an Amended and Restated Certificate of Designations filed in the Office of
the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on June 22, 1989, were
inadvertently omitted from Article FOURTH of said Restated Certificate, and
should be added thereto.

      THIRD:  Article FOURTH of the Restated Certificate is corrected by
inserting at the end thereof the following:

                                 SERIES A JUNIOR PREFERRED STOCK

      Pursuant to authority conferred by this Article FOURTH upon the Board of
Directors of the Corporation, the Board of Directors, pursuant to the Amended
and Restated Certificate of Designations filed in the Office of the Secretary of
State of the

<PAGE>

State of Delaware on June 22, 1989, has provided for a series of Preferred Stock
of the Corporation and has stated the designation and number shares, and has
fixed the relative rights, preferences, and limitations thereof as follows:

      Series A Preferred Stock:

      "RESOLVED, the designation and amount of a series of Preferred Stock
of the Company previously designated as "Series A Junior Participating
Preferred Stock," and the voting powers, preferences and relative,
participating, optional or other special rights of the shares of such series,
and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, are hereby
amended and restated to read in their entirety as follows:

      Section 1.  DESIGNATION AND AMOUNT.  The shares of such series shall be
designated as "Series A Junior Preferred Stock" (the "Series A Preferred Stock")
and the number of shares constituting such series shall be 1,900,000.

      Section 2.  DIVIDENDS AND DISTRIBUTIONS.

      (A)   Subject to the provisions for adjustment hereinafter set forth, the
holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive,
when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors out of funds legally
available for the purpose, (i) in the event the Board of Directors of the
Company shall, at any time after the issuance of any share of Series A Preferred
Stock, declare a cash dividend payable on the Common Stock, $.10 par value per
share, of the Company (the "Common Stock"), a preferential cash dividend in an
amount per share (rounded to the nearest cent) equal to 100 times the per share
amount of such cash dividend declared on a



                                      -2-

<PAGE>

share of the Common Stock and (ii) a preferential cash dividend (the
"Preferential Dividends"), if any, on the first day of January, April, July and
October of each year (each a "Quarterly Dividend Payment Date"), commencing on
the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date after the first issuance of a share or
fraction of a share of Series A Preferred Stock, in an amount equal to $10 per
share of Series A Preferred Stock less the per share amount of all cash
dividends declared on the Series A Preferred Stock pursuant to clause (i) of
this sentence since the immediately preceding Quarterly Dividend Payment Date
or, with respect to the first Quarterly Dividend Payment Date, since the first
issuance of any share of Series A Preferred Stock.  In the event the Board of
Directors of the Company shall, at any time after the issuance of any share of
Series A Preferred Stock, declare a distribution on the shares of Common Stock
of the Company, whether by way of a dividend or a reclassification of stock, a
recapitalization, reorganization or partial liquidation of the Company or
otherwise, which is payable in cash or any debt security, debt instrument, real
or personal property or any other property (other than cash dividends subject to
the immediately preceding sentence, a distribution of shares of Common Stock or
other capital stock of the Company or a distribution of rights or warrants to
acquire any such share, including any debt security convertible into or
exchangeable for any such share, at a price less than the Fair Market Value of
such share), then and in each such event each holder of Series A Preferred Stock
shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of
Directors, out of funds legally available for the purpose, a preferential
distribution on each then outstanding share of Series A


                                      -3-

<PAGE>

Preferred Stock of the Company, in like kind, in an amount equal to 100 times
the amount of such distribution paid on a share of Common Stock (subject to the
provisions for adjustment hereinafter set forth).  The dividends and
distributions on the Series A Preferred Stock to which holders thereof are
entitled pursuant to clause (i) of the first sentence of this paragraph and
pursuant to the second sentence of this paragraph are hereinafter referred to as
"Series A Dividends" and the multiple of such cash and non-cash dividends on the
Common Stock applicable to the determination of the Series A Dividends, which
shall be 100 initially but shall be adjusted from time to time as hereinafter
provided, is hereinafter referred to as the "Dividend Multiple."  In the event
the Company shall at any time after October 5, 1987 declare or pay any dividend
or make any distribution on Common Stock payable in shares of Common Stock, or
effect a subdivision or split or a combination, consolidation or reverse split
of the outstanding shares of Common Stock into a greater or lesser number of
shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the Dividend Multiple thereafter
applicable to the determination of the amount of the Series A Dividends which
holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive shall
be the Dividend Multiple applicable immediately prior to such event multiplied
by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock
outstanding immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the
number of shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such
event.

      (B)   So long as any shares of Series A Preferred Stock are outstanding,
no dividend or other distribution (other than a dividend or distribution paid
in shares


                                      -4-

<PAGE>

of Common Stock) shall be paid or set apart for payment by the Company on the
Common Stock, unless, in each case, the full dividends on all outstanding shares
of Series A Preferred Stock to which the holders thereof are entitled shall have
been paid.  No dividends shall be paid or declared or set apart for payment on
the Series A Preferred Stock in respect of any period unless dividends shall be
or have been paid, or declared and set apart for payment, pro rata on all shares
of Preferred Stock at the time outstanding of each other series which ranks
equally as to dividends with the Series A Preferred Stock so that the amount of
dividends declared on the Series A Preferred Stock shall bear the same ratio to
the amount declared on each such other series as the accrued dividends on the
Series A Preferred Stock shall bear to the accrued dividends on each such other
series.  Holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to
any dividend, whether payable in cash, property or stock, in excess of full
dividends, as herein provided, on shares of Series A Preferred Stock.  Accruals
of dividends shall not bear interest.

      (C)   Preferential Dividends shall begin to accrue on outstanding shares
of Series A Preferred Stock from the Quarterly Dividend Payment Date next
preceding the date of issuance of any shares of Series A Preferred Stock.
Accrued but unpaid Preferential Dividends shall cumulate but shall not bear
interest.  Preferential Dividends paid on the shares of Series A Preferred
Stock in an amount less than the total amount of such dividends at the time
accrued and payable on such shares shall be allocated pro rata on a
share-by-share basis among all such shares at the time outstanding.


                                      -5-

<PAGE>

      Section 3.  VOTING RIGHTS.  The holders of shares of Series A Preferred
Stock shall have the following voting rights:

      (A)   Each share of Series A Preferred Stock shall entitle the holder
thereof to 1 vote on all matters submitted to a vote of the stockholders of the
Company.   Except as otherwise provided herein, in the Restated Certificate of
Incorporation or by law, the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock and
the holders of shares of Common Stock shall vote together as one class on all
matters submitted to a vote of stockholders of the Company.

      (B)   In the event that the Preferential Dividends accrued on the Series A
Preferred Stock for four or more quarterly dividend periods, whether consecutive
or not, shall not have been declared and paid or set apart for payment, the
holders of record of the Series A Preferred Stock, together with any other
series of Preferred Stock in respect of which the following right is expressly
granted by the authorizing resolutions included in the Certificate of
Designations therefor, shall have the right, at the next meeting of stockholders
called for the election of directors, to elect two members to the Board of
Directors, which directors shall be in addition to the number required by the
By-laws prior to such event, to serve until the next Annual Meeting and until
their successors are elected and qualified or their earlier resignation, removal
or incapacity or until such earlier time as all accrued and unpaid Preferential
Dividends upon the outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall have
been paid (or set aside for payment) in full.  The holders of shares of Series A
Preferred Stock shall continue to have the right to elect directors as provided
by the immediately preceding


                                      -6-

<PAGE>

sentence until all accrued and unpaid Preferential Dividends upon the
outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall have been paid (or set
aside for payment) in full.  Such directors may be removed and replaced by such
stockholders, and vacancies in such directorships may be filled only by such
stockholders (or by the remaining director elected by such stockholders, if
there be one) in the manner permitted by law; provided, however, that any such
action by stockholders shall be taken at a meeting of stockholders and shall not
be taken by written consent thereto.

      (C)   Except as otherwise required by the Restated Certificate of
Incorporation or by law or set forth herein, holders of Series A Preferred Stock
shall  have no special voting rights and their consent shall not be required
(except to the extent they are entitled to vote with holders of Common Stock as
set forth herein) for the taking of any corporate action.

      Section 4.   CERTAIN RESTRICTIONS.

      (A)   Whenever Preferential Dividends or the Series A Dividends are in
arrears or the Company shall be in default of payment thereof, thereafter and
until all accrued and unpaid Preferential Dividends and the Series A Dividends,
whether or not declared, on shares of Series A Preferred Stock outstanding shall
have been paid or set aside for payment in full, and in addition to any and all
other rights which any holder of shares of Series A Preferred Stock may have in
such circumstances, the Company shall not

            (i)   declare or pay dividends on, make any other distributions on
      (other than a dividend or distribution paid in shares of Common Stock), or


                                      -7-

<PAGE>

      redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration, any shares of
      stock ranking junior (either as to dividends or upon liquidation,
      dissolution or winding up) to the Series A Preferred Stock;

            (ii)  declare or pay dividends on or make any other distributions on
      any shares of stock ranking on a parity as to dividends with the Series A
      Preferred Stock, unless dividends are paid ratably on the Series A
      Preferred Stock and all such parity stock on which dividends are payable
      or in arrears in proportion to the total amounts to which the holders of
      all such shares are then entitled if the full dividends accrued thereon
      were to be paid;

            (iii)  except as permitted by subparagraph (iv) of this paragraph
      4(A), redeem or purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration shares of
      any stock ranking on a parity (either as to dividends or upon liquidation,
      dissolution or winding up) with the Series A Preferred Stock, provided
      that the Company may at any time redeem, purchase or otherwise acquire
      shares of any such parity stock in exchange for shares of any stock of
      the Company ranking junior (both as to dividends and upon liquidation,
      dissolution or winding up) to the Series A Preferred Stock: or

            (iv)  purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of
      Series A Preferred Stock, or any shares of stock ranking on a parity with
      the Series A Preferred Stock (either as to dividends or upon liquidation,
      dissolution or winding up), except in accordance with a purchase offer


                                      -8-

<PAGE>

      made to all holders of such shares upon such terms as the Board of
      Directors, after consideration of the respective annual dividend rates and
      other relative rights and preferences of the respective series and
      classes, shall determine in good faith will result in fair and equitable
      treatment among the respective series or classes.

      (B)   The Company shall not permit any Subsidiary (as hereinafter defined)
of the Company to purchase or otherwise acquire for consideration any shares of
stock of the Company unless the Company could, under paragraph (A) of this
Section 4, purchase or otherwise acquire such shares at such time and in such
manner.  A "Subsidiary" of the Company shall mean any corporation or other
entity of which securities or other ownership interests having ordinary voting
power sufficient to elect a majority of the board of directors or other persons
performing similar functions are beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by
the Company or by any corporation or other entity that is otherwise controlled
by the Company.

      (C)   The Company shall not issue any shares of Series A Preferred Stock
except upon exercise of Rights issued pursuant to that certain Rights Agreement,
dated as of September 24, 1987, as amended by First Amendment to Rights
Agreement, dated as of May 25, 1989, between the Company and The Chase Manhattan
Bank, N.A., a copy of which is on file with the Secretary of the Company at its
principal executive office and shall be made available to stockholders of record
without charge upon written request therefor addressed to said Secretary.
Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence, nothing contained in the provisions
hereof


                                      -9-

<PAGE>

shall prohibit or restrict the Company from issuing for any purpose any series
of Preferred Stock with rights and privileges similar to, different from, or
greater than, those of the Series A Preferred Stock.

      Section 5.  REACQUIRED SHARES.  Any shares of Series A Preferred Stock
purchased or otherwise acquired by the Company in any manner whatsoever shall be
retired and cancelled promptly after the acquisition thereof.  All such shares
upon their retirement and cancellation shall become authorized but unissued
shares of Preferred Stock, without designation as to series, and such shares may
be reissued as part of a new series of Preferred Stock to be created by
resolution or resolutions of the Board of Directors.

      Section 6.  LIQUIDATION, DISSOLUTION OR WINDING UP.  Upon any voluntary or
involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company, no
distribution shall be made (i) to the holders of shares of stock ranking junior
(either as to dividends or upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up) to the
Series A Preferred Stock unless the holders of shares of Series A Preferred
Stock shall have received, subject to adjustment as hereinafter provided, (A)
$300 per one-hundredth share plus an amount equal to accrued and unpaid
dividends and distributions thereon, whether or not declared, to the date of
such payment, or (B) if greater than the amount specified in clause (i)(A) of
this sentence, an amount equal to 100 times the aggregate amount to be
distributed per share to holders of Common Stock, as the same may be adjusted as
hereinafter provided, and (ii) to the holders of stock ranking on a parity upon
liquidation, dissolution or winding up with the Series A Preferred Stock, unless


                                     -10-

<PAGE>

simultaneously therewith distributions are made ratably on the Series A
Preferred Stock and all other shares of such parity stock in proportion to the
total amounts to which the holders of shares of Series A Preferred Stock are
entitled under clause (i)(A) of this sentence and to which the holders of such
parity shares are entitled, in each case upon such liquidation, dissolution or
winding up.  The amount to which holders of Series A Preferred Stock may be
entitled upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company pursuant to
clause (i)(B) of the foregoing sentence is hereinafter referred to as the
"Participating Liquidation Amount" and the multiple of the amount to be
distributed to holders of shares of Common Stock upon the liquidation,
dissolution or winding up of the Company applicable pursuant to said clause to
the determination of the Participating Liquidation Amount, as said multiple may
be adjusted from time to time as hereinafter provided, is hereinafter referred
to as the "Liquidation Multiple."  In the event the Company shall at any time
after October 5, 1987 declare or pay any dividend on Common Stock payable in
shares of Common Stock, or effect a subdivision or split or a combination,
consolidation or reverse split of the outstanding shares of Common Stock into a
greater or lesser number of shares of Common Stock, then in each such case the
Liquidation Multiple thereafter applicable to the determination of the
Participating Liquidation Amount to which holders of Series A Preferred Stock
shall be entitled after such event shall be the Liquidation Multiple applicable
immediately prior to such event multiplied by a fraction the numerator of which
is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding


                                     -11-

<PAGE>

immediately after such event and the denominator of which is the number of
shares of Common Stock that were outstanding immediately prior to such event.

      Section 7.  CERTAIN RECLASSIFICATIONS AND OTHER EVENTS.

      (A)   In the event that holders of shares of Common Stock of the Company
receive after October 5, 1987 in respect of their shares of Common Stock any
share of capital stock of the Company (other than any share of Common Stock of
the Company), whether by way of reclassification, recapitalization,
reorganization, dividend or other distribution or otherwise (a "Transaction"),
then and in each such event the dividend rights and rights upon the liquidation,
dissolution or winding up of the Company of the shares of Series A Preferred
Stock shall be adjusted so that after such event the holders of Series A
Preferred Stock shall be entitled, in respect of each share of Series A
Preferred Stock held, in addition to such rights in respect thereof to which
such holder was entitled immediately prior to such adjustment, to (i) such
additional dividends as equal the Dividend Multiple in effect immediately prior
to such Transaction multiplied by the additional dividends which the holder of a
share of Common Stock shall be entitled to receive by virtue of the receipt in
the Transaction of such capital stock and (ii) such additional distributions
upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company as equal the
Liquidation Multiple in effect immediately prior to such Transaction multiplied
by the additional amount which the holder of a share of Common Stock shall be
entitled to receive upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company
by virtue of the receipt in the Transaction of such capital stock, as the case
may be, all as provided by the terms of such capital stock.


                                     -12-

<PAGE>

      (B)   In the event that holders of shares of Common Stock of the Company
receive after October 5, 1987 in respect of their shares of Common Stock any
right or warrant to purchase Common Stock (including as such a right, for all
purposes of this paragraph, any security convertible into or exchangeable for
Common Stock) at a purchase price per share less than the Fair Market Value (as
hereinafter defined) of a share of Common Stock on the date of issuance of such
right or warrant, then and in each such event the dividend rights and rights
upon the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company of the shares of
Series A Preferred Stock shall each be adjusted so that after such event the
Dividend Multiple and the Liquidation Multiple shall each be the product of the
Dividend Multiple and the Liquidation Multiple, as the case may be, in effect
immediately prior to such event multiplied by a fraction the numerator of which
shall be the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately before
such issuance of rights or warrants plus the maximum number of shares of Common
Stock which could be acquired upon exercise in full of all such rights or
warrants and the denominator of which shall be the number of shares of Common
Stock outstanding immediately before such issuance of rights or warrants plus
the number of shares of Common Stock which could be purchased, at the Fair
Market Value of the Common Stock at the time of such issuance, by the maximum
aggregate consideration payable upon exercise in full of all such rights or
warrants.

      (C)   In the event that holders of shares of Common Stock of the Company
receive after October 5, 1987 in respect of their shares of Common Stock


                                     -13-

<PAGE>

any right or warrant to purchase capital stock of the Company (other than shares
of Common Stock), including as such a right, for all purposes of this paragraph,
any security convertible into or exchangeable for capital stock of the Company
(other than Common Stock), at a purchase price per share less than the Fair
Market Value of such shares of capital stock on the date of issuance of such
right or warrant, then and in each such event the dividend rights and rights
upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company of the shares of
Series A Preferred Stock shall each be adjusted so that after such event each
holder of a share of Series A Preferred Stock shall be entitled, in respect of
each share of Series A Preferred Stock held, in addition to such rights in
respect thereof to which such holder was entitled immediately prior to such
event, to receive (i) such additional dividends as equal the Dividend Multiple
in effect immediately prior to such event multiplied, first, by the additional
dividends to which the holder of a share of Common Stock shall be entitled upon
exercise of such right or warrant by virtue of the capital stock which could be
acquired upon such exercise and multiplied again by the Discount Fraction (as
hereinafter defined) and (ii) such additional distributions upon liquidation,
dissolution or winding up of the Company as equal the Liquidation Multiple in
effect immediately prior to such event multiplied, first, by the additional
amount which the holder of a share of Common Stock shall be entitled to receive
upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Company upon exercise of such
right or warrant by virtue of the capital stock which could be acquired upon
such exercise and multiplied again by the Discount Fraction.  For purposes of
this paragraph, the "Discount Fraction" shall be a fraction the numerator


                                     -14-

<PAGE>

of which shall be the difference between the Fair Market Value of a share of the
capital stock subject to a right or warrant distributed to holders of shares of
Common Stock of the Company as contemplated by this paragraph immediately after
the distribution thereof and the purchase price per share for such share of
capital stock pursuant to such right or warrant and the denominator of which
shall be the Fair Market Value of a share of such capital stock immediately
after the distribution of such right or warrant.

      (D)   For purposes of this Section 7, the "Fair Market Value" of a share
of capital stock of the Company (including a share of Common Stock) on any date
shall be deemed to be the average of the daily closing price per share thereof
over the 30 consecutive Trading Days (as such term is hereinafter defined)
immediately prior to such date; provided, however, that, in the event that such
Fair Market Value of any such share of capital stock is determined during a
period which includes any date that is within 30 Trading Days after (i) the
ex-dividend date for a dividend or distribution on stock payable in shares of
such stock or securities convertible into shares of such stock, or (ii) the
effective date of any subdivision, split, combination, consolidation, reverse
stock split or reclassification of such stock, then, and in each such case, the
Fair Market Value shall be appropriately adjusted by the Board of Directors of
the Company to take into account ex-dividend or post-effective date trading.
The closing price for any day shall be the last sale price, regular way, or, in
case, no such sale takes place on such day, the average of the closing bid and
asked prices, regular way (in either case, as reported in the applicable
transaction reporting system with respect


                                     -15-

<PAGE>

to securities listed or admitted to trading on the New York Stock Exchange), or,
if the shares are not listed or admitted to trading on the New York Stock
Exchange, as reported in the applicable transaction reporting system with
respect to securities listed on the principal national securities exchange on
which the shares are listed or admitted to trading or, if the shares are not
listed or admitted to trading on any national securities exchange, the last
quoted price or, if not so quoted, the average of the high bid and low asked
prices in the over-the-counter market, as reported by the National Association
of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotation System ("NASDAQ") or such other
system then in use, or if on any such date the shares are not quoted by any such
organization, the average of the closing bid and asked prices as furnished by a
professional market maker making a market in the shares selected by the Board of
Directors of the Company.  The term "Trading Day" shall mean a day on which the
principal national securities exchange on which the shares are listed or
admitted to trading is open for the transaction of business or, if the shares
are not listed or admitted to trading on any national securities exchange, on
which the New York Stock Exchange or such other national securities exchange as
may be selected by the Board of Directors of the Company is open.  If the shares
are not publicly held or not so listed or traded on any day within the period of
30 Trading Days applicable to the determination of Fair Market Value thereof as
aforesaid, "Fair Market Value" shall mean the fair market value thereof per
share as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors of the Company.  In
either case referred to in the foregoing


                                     -16-

<PAGE>

sentence, the determination of Fair Market Value shall be described in a
statement filed with the Secretary of the Company.

      Section 8.          CONSOLIDATION, MERGER, ETC.  In case the Company shall
enter into any consolidation, merger, combination or other transaction in which
the shares of Common Stock are exchanged for or changed into other stock or
securities, cash and/or any other property, then in any such case each
outstanding share of Series A Preferred Stock shall at the same time be
similarly exchanged for or changed into the aggregate amount of stock,
securities, cash and/or other property (payable in like kind), as the case may
be, for which or into which each share of Common Stock is changed or exchanged
multiplied by the higher of the Dividend Multiple or the Liquidation Multiple in
effect immediately prior to such event.

      Section 9.  EFFECTIVE TIME OF ADJUSTMENTS.

      (A)   Adjustments to the Series A Preferred Stock required by the
provisions hereof shall be effective as of the time at which the event
requiring such adjustments occurs.

      (B)   The Company shall give prompt written notice to each holder of a
share of Series A Preferred Stock of the effect of any adjustment to the
dividend rights or rights upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the
Company of such shares required by the provisions hereof.  Notwithstanding the
foregoing sentence, the failure of the Company to give such notice shall not
affect the validity of or the force or effect of or the requirement for such
adjustment.



                                     -17-

<PAGE>

      Section 10.  NO REDEMPTION.  The shares of Series A Preferred Stock shall
not be redeemable at the option of the Company or any holder thereof.
Notwithstanding the foregoing sentence of this Section, the Company may acquire
shares of Series A Preferred Stock in any other manner permitted by law, the
provisions hereof and the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company.

      Section 11.  RANKING.  Unless otherwise provided in the Restated
Certificate of Incorporation of the Company or a Certificate of Designations
relating to a subsequent series of preferred stock of the Company, the Series A
Preferred Stock shall rank junior to all other series of the Company's Preferred
Stock as to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets on
liquidation, dissolution or winding up and senior to the Common Stock.

      Section 12. AMENDMENT.  The provisions hereof and the Restated Certificate
of Incorporation of the Company shall not be amended in any manner which would
adversely affect the rights, privileges or powers of the Series A Preferred
Stock without, in addition to any other vote of stockholders required by law,
the affirmative vote of the holders to two-thirds or more of the outstanding
shares of Series A Preferred Stock, voting together as a single class."


                                     -18-

<PAGE>

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Pfizer Inc. has caused this Certificate of Correction
to be executed by Terence J. Gallagher, its Vice President - Corporate
Governance and Assistant Secretary, this 27th day of December, 1994.

                                    PFIZER INC.

                                    --------------------------------------------
                                    Terence J. Gallagher
                                    Vice President - Corporate
                                      Governance and Assistant
                                      Secretary


                                     -19-
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.1
<SEQUENCE>3
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 10.1
<TEXT>

<PAGE>


                                        , 1995



Pfizer Inc.
235 East 42nd Street
New York, New York  10017

Dear            :

          Pfizer Inc. (the "Company") considers it essential to the best
interests of its stockholders to foster the continuous employment of key
management personnel.  In this connection, should the Company receive a proposal
from a third party, whether solicited by the Company or unsolicited, concerning
a possible business combination with, or the acquisition of a substantial share
of the equity or voting securities of, the Company, the Board of Directors of
the Company (the "Board") has determined that it is imperative that it and the
Company be able to rely upon your continued services without concern that you
might be distracted by the personal uncertainties and risks that such a proposal
might otherwise entail.

          Accordingly, the Board in the past has taken steps to reinforce and
encourage the continued attention and dedication of members of the Company's
management, yourself included, to their assigned duties without distraction in
the face of potentially disturbing circumstances that could arise out of a
proposal for a change in control of the Company.  The Board has reviewed the
terms of the Company's existing severance arrangements with you and has
determined that it is appropriate to update and modify certain of such
arrangements, all upon the terms set forth herein.

          In order to induce you to remain in the employ of the Company and
its subsidiaries and in consideration of your agreement set forth in Section
2(ii) hereof, the Company agrees that you shall receive the severance benefits
set forth in this letter agreement ("Agreement") in the event your employment
with the Company and its subsidiaries is terminated subsequent to a Change in
Control (as defined in Section 2 hereof) under the circumstances described
below.

          1.   TERM OF AGREEMENT.  This Agreement shall commence on the
date hereof and shall continue in effect through September 30, 1996; provided,
however, the term of this Agreement shall automatically be extended for one
additional year commencing on October 1, 1996 and each October 1 thereafter,
unless, not later than June 30 of the preceding year, the Company shall have
given notice that it does not wish to extend this Agreement; provided, further,
that, notwithstanding any such notice by the Company not


<PAGE>


          , 1995
Page 2

to extend, if a Change in Control shall have occurred during the original or any
extended term of this Agreement, this Agreement shall continue in effect for a
period of forty-eight (48) months beyond the expiration of the term in effect
immediately before such Change in Control.

          2.   CHANGE IN CONTROL.  (i)  No benefits shall be payable
hereunder unless there shall have been a Change in Control of the Company, as
set forth below.  For purposes of this Agreement, and subject to the proviso set
forth in clause (C) below, a "Change in Control" of the Company shall mean a
change in control of a nature that would be required to be reported in response
to Item 6(e) of Schedule 14A of Regulation 14A promulgated under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), whether or not the
Company is then subject to such reporting requirement; provided that, without
limitation, such a Change in Control shall be deemed to have occurred if (A) any
"person" (as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act)
is or becomes the "beneficial owner" (as determined for purposes of Regulation
13D-G under the Exchange Act as currently in effect), directly or indirectly, of
securities of the Company representing 20% or more of the combined voting power
of the Company's then outstanding securities; or (B) during any period of two
consecutive years, individuals who at the beginning of such period constitute
the Board and any new director, whose election to the Board or nomination for
election to the Board by the Company's stockholders was approved by a vote of at
least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office who either were
directors at the beginning of the period or whose election or nomination for
election was previously so approved, cease for any reason to constitute a
majority of the Board; or (C) the stockholders of the Company approve a merger
or consolidation of the Company with any other corporation, other than a merger
or consolidation which would result in the holders of the voting securities of
the Company outstanding immediately prior thereto holding immediately thereafter
securities representing more than 80% of the combined voting power of the voting
securities of the Company or such surviving entity outstanding immediately after
such merger or consolidation; or (D) the stockholders of the Company approve a
plan of complete liquidation of the Company or an agreement for the sale or
disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of the Company's assets.

          (ii)  You agree that, subject to the terms and conditions of this
Agreement, in the event of a potential change in control of the Company
occurring after the date hereof, you will not voluntarily terminate your
employment with the Company and its subsidiaries for a period of six (6) months
from the


<PAGE>


          , 1995
Page 3

occurrence of such potential change in control of the Company.  If more than one
potential change in control occurs during the term of this Agreement, the
provisions of the preceding sentence shall be applicable to each potential
change in control occurring prior to the occurrence of a Change in Control.  For
purposes of this Agreement, a "potential change in control of the Company" shall
be deemed to have occurred if (A) the Company enters into an agreement, the
consummation of which would result in the occurrence of a Change in Control; (B)
any person (including the Company) publicly announces an intention to take or to
consider taking actions which if consummated would constitute a Change in
Control; (C) any person becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of
securities of the Company representing 9.5% or more of the combined voting power
or the Company's then outstanding securities; or (D) the Board adopts a
resolution to the effect that, for purposes of this Agreement, a potential
change in control of the Company has occurred.

          3.  TERMINATION FOLLOWING CHANGE IN CONTROL.  If any of the events
described in Section 2(i) hereof constituting a Change in Control shall have
occurred, you shall be entitled to the benefits provided in Section 4(iv) hereof
upon the subsequent termination of your employment with the Company and its
subsidiaries during the term of this Agreement unless such termination is (A) a
result of your death or Retirement, or (B) by you for other than Good Reason, or
(C) by the Company or any of its subsidiaries for Disability or for Cause.

          (i)  DISABILITY; RETIREMENT.  For purposes of this Agreement,
"Disability" shall mean permanent and total disability as such term is defined
under Section 22(e)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the
"Code").  Any question as to the existence of your Disability upon which you and
the Company cannot agree shall be determined by a qualified independent
physician selected by you (or, if you are unable to make such selection, such
selection shall be made by any adult member of your immediate family or your
legal representative), and approved by the Company, said approval not to be
unreasonably withheld.  The determination of such physician made in writing to
the Company and to you shall be final and conclusive for all purposes of this
Agreement.  For purposes of this Agreement, "Retirement" shall mean your
voluntary termination of employment with the Company in accordance with the
Company's retirement policy (excluding early retirement) generally applicable to
its salaried employees or in accordance with any retirement arrangement
established with your consent with respect to you.

          (ii)  CAUSE.  For purposes of this Agreement, "Cause" shall mean
your willful breach of duty in the course of your


<PAGE>


          , 1995
Page 4

employment, or your habitual neglect of your employment duties.  For purposes of
this Section 3(ii), no act, or failure to act, on your part shall be deemed
"willful" unless done, or omitted to be done, by you not in good faith and
without reasonable belief that your action or omission was in the best interest
of the Company and its subsidiaries.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, you shall
not be deemed to have been terminated for Cause unless and until there shall
have been delivered to you a copy of a resolution duly adopted by the
affirmative vote of not less than three-quarters (3/4) of the entire membership
of the Board at a meeting of the Board called and held for such purpose (after
reasonable notice to you and an opportunity for you, together with your counsel,
to be heard before the Board), finding that in the good faith opinion of the
Board you were guilty of conduct set forth above in this Section 3(ii) and
specifying the particulars thereof in detail.

          (iii)  GOOD REASON.  You shall be entitled to terminate your
employment for Good Reason.  For the purpose of this Agreement, "Good Reason"
shall mean the occurrence, without your express written consent, of any of the
following circumstances unless, in the case of paragraphs 3(iii)(A), (E), (F),
(G), or (H), such circumstances are fully corrected prior to the Date of
Termination (as defined in Section 3(v)) specified in the Notice of Termination
(as defined in Section 3(iv)) given in respect thereof:

          (A)  the assignment to you of any duties inconsistent with your status
     as an executive officer of Pfizer Inc., your removal from that position, or
     a substantial diminution in the nature or status of your responsibilities
     from those in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control;

          (B)  a reduction by the Company or any of its subsidiaries in your
     annual base salary or bonus as in effect on the date hereof or as the same
     may be increased from time to time;

          (C)  the relocation of the office in which you are based to a location
     (i) outside of the Borough of Manhattan if the office in which you are
     based prior to the Change In Control is located in the Borough of Manhattan
     or (ii) outside of the Town of Groton, Connecticut or the Borough of
     Manhattan if the office in which you are based prior to the Change In
     Control is located in the Town of Groton, Connecticut;


<PAGE>


          , 1995
Page 5

          (D)  the failure by the Company to pay to you any portion of any
     installment of deferred compensation under any deferred compensation
     program of the Company within seven (7) days of the date such compensation
     is due;

          (E)  the failure by the Company or any of its subsidiaries to continue
     in effect any incentive compensation plan in which you participate prior to
     the Change in Control, unless an equitable alternative compensation
     arrangement (embodied in an ongoing substitute or alternative plan) has
     been provided for you, or the failure by the Company or any of its
     subsidiaries to continue your participation in any such incentive plan on
     the same basis, both in terms of the amount of benefits provided and the
     level of your participation relative to other participants, as existed at
     the time of the Change in Control;

          (F)  except as required by law, the failure by the Company or any of
     its subsidiaries to continue to provide you with benefits at least as
     favorable as those enjoyed by you under the employee benefit and welfare
     plans of the Company and its subsidiaries, including, without limitation,
     the pension, life insurance, medical, dental, health and accident,
     disability, deferred compensation retirement and savings plans, in which
     you were participating at the time of the Change in Control, the taking of
     any action by the Company or any of its subsidiaries which would directly
     or indirectly materially reduce any of such benefits or deprive you of any
     material fringe benefit enjoyed by you at the time of the Change in
     Control, or the failure by the Company or any of its subsidiaries to
     provide you with the number of paid vacation days to which you are entitled
     at the time of the Change in Control;

          (G)  the failure of the Company to obtain a satisfactory agreement
     from any successor to assume and agree to perform this Agreement, as
     contemplated in Section 5 hereof; or

          (H)  any purported termination of your employment which is not
     effected pursuant to a Notice of Termination satisfying the requirements of
     Section 3(iv) below (and, if applicable, the requirements of Section 3(ii)
     above); for purposes of this Agreement, no such purported termination shall
     be effective.


<PAGE>


          , 1995
Page 6

Your continued employment shall not constitute consent to, or a waiver of rights
with respect to, any circumstances constituting Good Reason hereunder.

          (iv)  NOTICE OF TERMINATION.  Any purported termination of your
employment by the Company and its subsidiaries or by you shall be communicated
by written Notice of Termination to the other party hereto in accordance with
Section 6 hereof.  For purposes of this Agreement, a "Notice of Termination"
shall mean a notice which shall indicate the specific termination provision in
this Agreement relied upon and shall set forth in reasonable detail the facts
and circumstances claimed to provide a basis for termination of your employment
under the provision so indicated.

          (v)  DATE OF TERMINATION, ETC.  "Date of Termination" shall mean
(A) if your employment is terminated for Disability, thirty (30) days after
Notice of Termination is given (provided that you shall not have returned to the
full-time performance of your duties during such thirty (30) day period), and
(B) if your employment is terminated pursuant to Section 3(ii) or (iii) above or
for any reason (other than Disability), the date specified in the Notice of
Termination (which, in the case of a termination pursuant to Section 3(ii) above
shall not be less than thirty (30) days, and in the case of a termination
pursuant to Section 3(iii) above shall not be less than thirty (30) nor more
than sixty (60) days, respectively, from the date such Notice of Termination is
given); provided that, if within thirty (30) days after any Notice of
Termination is given the party receiving such Notice of Termination notifies the
other party that a dispute exists concerning the grounds for termination, the
Date of Termination shall be the date on which the dispute is finally
determined, either by mutual written agreement of the parties, by a binding
arbitration award or by a final judgment, order or decree of a court of
competent jurisdiction (which is not appealable or the time for appeal therefrom
having expired and no appeal having been perfected); provided further that the
Date of Termination shall be extended by a notice of dispute only if such notice
is given in good faith and the party giving such notice pursues the resolution
of such dispute with reasonable diligence.  Notwithstanding the pendency of any
such dispute, the Company and its subsidiaries will continue to pay you your
full compensation in effect when the notice giving rise to the dispute was given
(including, but not limited to, base salary and bonus) and continue you as a
participant in all incentive compensation, benefit and insurance plans in which
you were participating when the notice giving rise to the dispute was given,
until the dispute is finally resolved in accordance with this Section 3(v).
Amounts paid under this Section 3(v) are in addition to all other


<PAGE>


          , 1995
Page 7

amounts due under this Agreement and shall not be offset against or reduce any
other amounts due under this Agreement.

          4.  COMPENSATION UPON TERMINATION OR DURING DISABILITY.  Following
a Change in Control of the Company, as defined by Section 2(i), upon termination
of your employment or during a period of Disability you shall be entitled to the
following benefits, provided that such period of Disability or Date of
Termination occurs during the term of this Agreement:

          (i)  During any period that you fail to perform your full-time
duties with the Company and its subsidiaries as a result of your Disability, you
shall continue to receive an amount equal to your base salary and bonus at the
rate in effect at the commencement of any such period through the Date of
Termination for Disability.  Thereafter, your benefits shall be determined in
accordance with the insurance programs of the Company and its subsidiaries then
in effect.

          (ii)  If your employment shall be terminated by the Company or any
of its subsidiaries for Cause or by you other than for Good Reason, the Company
(or one of its subsidiaries, if applicable) shall pay you your full base salary
and bonus through the Date of Termination at the rate in effect at the time
Notice of Termination is given and shall pay any amounts to be paid to you
pursuant to any other compensation plans, programs or employment agreements then
in effect, and the Company shall have no further obligations to you under this
Agreement.

          (iii)  If your employment shall be terminated by reason of your
death or Retirement, your benefits shall be determined in accordance with the
retirement and insurance programs of the Company and its subsidiaries then in
effect.

          (iv)  If your employment by the Company and its subsidiaries shall
be terminated by (a) the Company and its subsidiaries other than for Cause, your
death, Retirement, or Disability or (b) you for Good Reason, then you shall be
entitled to the benefits provided below:

          (A)  The Company (or one of its subsidiaries, if applicable) shall pay
     you your full base salary and annual incentive payment through the Date of
     Termination at the rate in effect at the time the Notice of Termination is
     given, no later than the fifth day following the Date of Termination, plus
     all other amounts to which you are entitled under any compensation plan of
     the Company applicable to you, at the time such payments are due.  For
     purposes of this Section 4(iv)(A) and the other provisions


<PAGE>


          , 1995
Page 8

     of this Agreement, your annual incentive payment "in effect at the time the
     Notice of Termination is given" shall mean the greater of (i) the target
     amount of your annual incentive payment for the year in which the Notice of
     Termination is given and (ii) the amount of the annual incentive payment
     made to you in respect of the year immediately prior to the year in which
     the Notice of Termination is given.

          (B)  The Company shall pay you, on a date that is no later than the
     fifth day following the Date of Termination, as severance pay to you a
     severance payment equal to 2.99 times the greater of (i) your "Base Amount"
     as such term is defined under Section 280G(b)(3) of the Code or (ii) the
     sum of (x) your full base salary and (y) annual incentive payment, in each
     case in effect at the time the Notice of Termination is given.  In
     addition, the Company shall pay or otherwise transfer to you, on a date
     that is no later than the fifth day following the Date of Termination,
     amounts and property that you are eligible to receive in respect of awards
     made to you prior to the Date of Termination pursuant to the Company's
     Performance - Contingent Share Awards (or any successor long-term
     compensation plan or award in effect as of the Date of Termination) that
     remain outstanding as of the Date of Termination, such amounts and property
     to be  calculated using the maximum number of shares, payments or other
     benefits that you could have received pursuant to all such outstanding
     awards.

               For purposes of this Section 4(iv)(B), your Base Amount shall be
     determined in accordance with Section 280G(b)(3) of the Code and with any
     proposed, temporary or final regulations promulgated under that Section in
     effect.  In the absence of such regulations, if you were not employed by
     the Company (or any corporation affiliated with the Company (an
     "Affiliate") within the meaning of Section 1504 of the Code or a
     predecessor of the Company) during the entire five calendar years (the
     "Base Period") preceding the calendar year in which a Change in Control of
     the Company occurred, your average annual compensation for the purposes of
     such determination shall be the average of your annual compensation for
     both complete and partial calendar years during the Base Period during
     which you were so employed, determined by annualizing any compensation
     (other than nonrecurring items) includible in your gross income for any
     partial calendar year.  For purposes of the preceding sentence,
     compensation payable to you by the Company or any Affiliate or predecessor
     of the Company shall include every type and form of compensation includible
     in your gross


<PAGE>


          , 1995
Page 9

     income in respect of your employment by the Company or any Affiliate or
     predecessor of the Company, including compensation income recognized as a
     result of your exercise of stock options or sale of the stock so acquired,
     except to the extent otherwise provided in proposed, temporary or final
     regulations promulgated under Section 280G of the Code defining base
     amount.

               The payment to be made to you pursuant to this Section 4(iv)(B)
     shall not be reduced by the amount of any other payment or the value of any
     benefit received or to be received by you in connection with your
     termination of employment or contingent upon a Change in Control of the
     Company (whether payable pursuant to the terms of this Agreement or any
     other agreement, plan or arrangement with the Company or an Affiliate,
     predecessor or successor of the Company or any person whose actions result
     in a Change in Control of the Company or an Affiliate of such person).

          (C)  In the event that any payment or benefit received or to be
     received by you pursuant to the terms of this Agreement (the "Contract
     Payments") or in connection with your termination of employment or
     contingent upon a Change in Control of the Company pursuant to any plan or
     arrangement or other agreement with the Company (or any affiliate) ("Other
     Payments" and, together with the Contract Payments, the "Payments") would
     be subject to the excise tax (the "Excise Tax") imposed by Section 4999 of
     the Code, as determined as provided below, the Company shall pay to you, at
     the time specified in Section 4(iv)(D) below, an additional amount (the
     "Gross-Up Payment") such that the net amount retained by you, after
     deduction of the Excise Tax on Contract Payments and Other Payments and any
     federal, state and local income tax and Excise Tax upon the payment
     provided for by this Section 4(iv)(C), and any interest, penalties or
     additions to tax payable by you with respect thereto, shall be equal to the
     total present value of the Contract Payments and Other Payments at the time
     such Payments are to be made.  For purposes of determining whether any of
     the Payments will be subject to the Excise Tax and the amounts of such
     Excise Tax, (1) the total amount of the Payments shall be treated as
     "parachute payments" within the meaning of Section 280G(b)(2) of the Code,
     and all "excess parachute payments" within the meaning of Section
     280G(b)(1) of the Code shall be treated as subject to the Excise Tax,
     except to the extent that, in the opinion of independent tax counsel
     selected by the Company's independent auditors and reasonably acceptable to
     you ("Tax Counsel"), a Payment (in whole or in part) does not


<PAGE>


          , 1995
Page 10

     constitute a "parachute payment" within the meaning of Section 280G(b)(2)
     of the Code, or such "excess parachute payments" (in whole or in part) are
     not subject to the Excise Tax, (2) the amount of the Payments that shall be
     treated as subject to the Excise Tax shall be equal to the lesser of (A)
     the total amount of the Payments or (B) the amount of "excess parachute
     payments" within the meaning of Section 280G(b)(1) of the Code (after
     applying clause (1) hereof), and (3) the value of any noncash benefits or
     any deferred payment or benefit shall be determined by Tax Counsel in
     accordance with the principles of Sections 280G(d)(3) and (4) of the Code.
     For purposes of determining the amount of the Gross-Up Payment, you shall
     be deemed to pay federal income tax at the highest marginal rates of
     federal income taxation applicable to individuals in the calendar year in
     which the Gross-Up Payment is to be made and state and local income taxes
     at the highest marginal rates of taxation applicable to individuals as are
     in effect in the state and locality of your residence in the calendar year
     in which the Gross-Up Payment is to be made, net of the maximum reduction
     in federal income taxes that can be obtained from deduction of such state
     and local taxes, taking into account any limitations applicable to
     individuals subject to federal income tax at the highest marginal rates.

          (D)  The Gross-Up Payments provided for in Section 4(iv)(C) hereof
     shall be made upon the earlier of (i) the payment to you of any Contract
     Payment or Other Payment or (ii) the imposition upon you or payment by you
     of any Excise Tax.

          (E)  If it is established pursuant to a final determination of a court
     or an Internal Revenue Service proceeding or the opinion of Tax Counsel
     that the Excise Tax is less than the amount taken into account under
     Section 4(iv)(C) hereof, you shall repay to the Company within five days of
     your receipt of notice of such final determination or opinion the portion
     of the Gross-Up Payment attributable to such reduction (plus the portion of
     the Gross-Up Payment attributable to the Excise Tax and federal, state and
     local income tax imposed on the Gross-Up Payment being repaid by you if
     such repayment results in a reduction in Excise Tax or a federal, state and
     local income tax deduction) plus any interest received by you on the amount
     of such repayment.  If it is established pursuant to a final determination
     of a court or an Internal Revenue Service proceeding or the opinion of Tax
     Counsel that the Excise Tax exceeds the amount taken into account hereunder
     (including by reason of


<PAGE>


          , 1995
Page 11

     any payment the existence or amount of which cannot be determined at the
     time of the Gross-Up Payment), the Company shall make an additional
     Gross-Up Payment in respect of such excess within five days of the
     Company's receipt of notice of such final determination or opinion.

          (F)  The Company shall also pay to you all legal fees and expenses
     reasonably incurred by you in connection with this Agreement (including all
     such fees and expenses, if any, incurred in contesting or disputing the
     nature of any such termination for purposes of this Agreement or in seeking
     to obtain or enforce any right or benefit provided by this Agreement); and

          (G)  (i)  Upon the date of Termination, you (or your spouse or
     applicable beneficiary in the event of your death) will receive a benefit
     payable from the Company's general funds to be calculated using the benefit
     calculation provisions of the Pfizer Retirement Annuity Plan ("PRAP") and
     the Company's unfunded Supplemental Retirement Plan ("SRP") as if the
     provisions thereunder contained the assumptions set forth herein, and
     offset by any benefits actually payable under PRAP and SRP not taking into
     account the assumptions set forth herein.  Any elections made under SRP for
     purposes of determining the form of payment will also apply for purposes of
     this benefit. The assumptions to be used in calculating your benefit are:
     (x) you have continued in the employ of the Company for an additional three
     years after the Date of Termination, and (y) you have earned annually from
     the Date of Termination to the date of your assumed continued employment
     pursuant to clause (x) above the same compensation you earned in the twelve
     months preceding the Date of Termination or in the twelve months preceding
     the Change of Control, if greater.  In addition, the pension payable to you
     at age 55 (or upon the Date of Termination, if you are then age 55 or over)
     shall not be reduced because it is payable prior to age 65.

          (ii)  There will be added three years to your actual age for
     determining whether you are age 55 or over for the purposes of your
     eligibility to commence receiving payments of benefits pursuant to Section
     4(iv)(G)(i) above.

          (H)  You shall be immediately eligible for all benefits, in addition
     to those described in Section 4(iv) (G) above, made available immediately
     prior to the Date of Termination to retirees of the Corporation, including,
     without limitation, retiree medical coverage and life insurance benefits,
     as if you had at the Date of Termination


<PAGE>


          , 1995
Page 12

     satisfied the age and service conditions for coverage under the applicable
     provisions of the Company's employee benefit plans.  If the Company is
     unable to provide you coverage under such plans, it shall provide you with
     separate comparable coverage.

          (I)  Upon the Date of Termination (i) all restrictions and limitations
     on any "restricted" stock awards previously made to you pursuant to the
     Company's Stock and Incentive Plan or otherwise shall lapse and have no
     further force and effect and you shall be entitled to receive in respect
     thereof certificates evidencing shares of stock reflecting your right to
     vote, dispose, receive distributions and enjoy all other rights in respect
     of such stock free of the previously imposed restrictions and (ii) all
     options to purchase stock that are not vested shall immediately vest and
     become exercisable and all options to purchase stock then held by you shall
     remain in effect for the respective terms of such options notwithstanding
     any early termination provisions that otherwise would be applicable.

          (J)  You shall not be required to mitigate the amount of any payment
     provided for in this Section 4 by seeking other employment or otherwise,
     nor shall the amount of any payment or benefit provided for in this Section
     4 be reduced by any compensation earned by you as the result of employment
     by another employer or by retirement benefits received after the Date of
     Termination or otherwise.

          5.  SUCCESSORS; BINDING AGREEMENT.

          (i)  The Company will require any successor (whether direct or
indirect, by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all or
substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company to expressly
assume and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same
extent that the Company is required to perform it.  Failure of the Company to
obtain such assumption and agreement prior to the effectiveness of any such
succession shall be a breach of this Agreement and shall entitle you to
compensation from the Company in the same amount and on the same terms as you
would be entitled hereunder if you had terminated your employment for Good
Reason following a Change in Control, except that for purposes of implementing
the foregoing, the date on which any such succession becomes effective shall be
deemed the Date of Termination.  As used in this Agreement, "Company" shall mean
the Company as hereinbefore defined and any successor to its business and/or
assets as aforesaid which assumes and agrees to perform this Agreement by
operation of law, or otherwise.


<PAGE>


          , 1995
Page 13

          (ii)  This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable
by your personal or legal representatives, executors, administrators,
successors, heirs, distributees, devisees and legatees.  If you should die while
any amount would still be payable to you hereunder if you had continued to live,
all such amounts, unless otherwise provided herein, shall be paid in accordance
with the terms of this Agreement to your devisee, legatee or other designee or,
if there is no such designee, to your estate.

          6.  NOTICE.  For the purpose of this Agreement, notices and all
other communications provided for in this Agreement shall be in writing and
shall be deemed to have been duly given when delivered or mailed by United
States registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed to
the address set forth on the first page of this Agreement with respect to the
Company and on the signature page with respect to you, provided that all notices
to the Company shall be directed to the attention of the Senior Vice
President-General Counsel of the Company, or to such other address as either
party may have furnished to the other in writing in accordance herewith, except
that notice of change of address shall be effective only upon receipt.

          7.  MISCELLANEOUS.  No provision of this Agreement may be
modified, waived or discharged unless such waiver, modification or discharge is
agreed to in writing and signed by you and such officer as may be specifically
designated by the Board.  No waiver by either party hereto at any time of any
breach by the other party hereto of, or compliance with, any conditions or
provision of this Agreement to be performed by such other party shall be deemed
a waiver of similar or dissimilar provisions or conditions at the same or at any
prior or subsequent time.  No agreements or representations, oral or otherwise,
express or implied, with respect to the subject matter hereof have been made by
either party which are not expressly set forth in this Agreement.  The validity,
interpretation, construction and performance of this Agreement shall be governed
by the laws of the State of New York, including Section 198 (1-a) of the New
York Labor Law.  All references to sections of the Code shall be deemed also to
refer to any successor provisions to such sections.  Any payments provided for
hereunder shall be paid net of any applicable withholding required under
federal, state or local law.  The obligations of the Company under Section 4
shall survive the expiration of the term of this Agreement.

          8.  VALIDITY.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision
of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or


<PAGE>


          , 1995
Page 14

enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement, which shall remain in
full force and effect.

          9.  COUNTERPARTS.  This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original but all of which
together will constitute one and the same instrument.

          10.  ARBITRATION.  Any dispute or controversy arising under or in
connection with this Agreement shall be settled exclusively by arbitration in
accordance with the rules of the American Arbitration Association then in
effect.  Judgment may be entered on the arbitrator's award in any court having
jurisdiction; provided, however, that you shall be entitled to seek specific
performance of your right to be paid until the Date of Termination during the
pendency of any dispute or controversy arising under or in connection with this
Agreement.

          11.  EFFECT ON EXISTING AGREEMENT.  This Agreement supersedes and
replaces that certain letter agreement, dated __________________, between you
and the Company, which shall have no further continuing force or effect.


          If this letter sets forth our agreement on the subject matter
hereof, kindly sign and return to the Company the enclosed copy of this letter
which will then constitute our agreement on this subject.



                                        Sincerely,

                                        Pfizer Inc.


                                        By:_____________________________________
                                           Name:
                                           Title:


Agreed to this ____ day
of       , 1995.


____________________________________

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-11
<SEQUENCE>4
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 11
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
                                                                      EXHIBIT 11

                      PFIZER INC. AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
                  COMPUTATION OF EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE AND
                    FULLY DILUTED EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                       YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                                                   --------------------------------
                                                                                      1994       1993       1992
                                                                                   ----------  ---------  ---------
                                                                                    (IN MILLIONS EXCEPT PER SHARE
                                                                                                DATA)
<S>                                                                                <C>         <C>        <C>
Net income.......................................................................  $  1,298.4  $   657.5  $   810.9
Add: Interest on 8 3/4% Convertible Subordinated Debentures Due 2006 and
     amortization of expenses incurred in connection with the issuance of the
     8 3/4% Convertible Subordinated Debentures, net of applicable income tax
     effect (a)..................................................................      --         --             .2
                                                                                   ----------  ---------  ---------
Adjusted net income for earnings per common share computation....................  $  1,298.4  $   657.5  $   811.1
                                                                                   ----------  ---------  ---------
                                                                                   ----------  ---------  ---------
Weighted average number of common shares outstanding.............................       305.8      315.5      329.0
Common share equivalents applicable to stock option plans........................         4.4        4.9        7.5
                                                                                   ----------  ---------  ---------
Weighted average number of common shares and common share equivalents used to
 compute earnings per common share...............................................       310.2      320.4      336.5
                                                                                   ----------  ---------  ---------
                                                                                   ----------  ---------  ---------
Earnings per common share........................................................  $     4.19  $    2.05  $    2.41
                                                                                   ----------  ---------  ---------
                                                                                   ----------  ---------  ---------
Adjusted net income for fully diluted earnings per common share computation......  $  1,298.4  $   657.5  $   811.1
                                                                                   ----------  ---------  ---------
                                                                                   ----------  ---------  ---------
Weighted average number of common shares outstanding.............................       305.8      315.5      329.0
Common share equivalents applicable to stock option plans........................         4.8        5.1        7.5
Common share equivalents applicable to 4% Convertible Subordinated Debentures Due
 1997 (b)........................................................................      --         --             .1
                                                                                   ----------  ---------  ---------
Weighted average number of common shares and common share equivalents used to
 compute fully diluted earnings per common share.................................       310.6      320.6      336.6
                                                                                   ----------  ---------  ---------
                                                                                   ----------  ---------  ---------
Fully diluted earnings per common share (c)......................................  $     4.18  $    2.05  $    2.41
                                                                                   ----------  ---------  ---------
                                                                                   ----------  ---------  ---------
<FN>
------------------------

(a)  The  8 3/4% Convertible Subordinated Debentures  Due 2006 are considered to
     be common share equivalents since the  interest rate on the debentures  was
     less  than two-thirds of the  prime interest rate at  the time of issuance.
     These debentures were redeemed on April 15, 1992.

(b)  The 4% Convertible Subordinated Debentures  Due 1997 are not considered  to
     be  common share equivalents since the  interest rate on the debentures was
     not less  than  two-thirds  of the  prime  interest  rate at  the  time  of
     issuance.

(c)  This  calculation  is  submitted  in accordance  with  Regulation  S-K item
     601(b)(11) although  not required  by footnote  2 to  paragraph 14  of  APB
     Opinion No. 15 because it results in dilution of less than 3%.
</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-12
<SEQUENCE>5
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 12
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
                                                                      EXHIBIT 12

                      PFIZER INC. AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
               COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                         YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                        ---------------------------------------------------------
                                                           1994       1993        1992        1991        1990
                                                        ----------  ---------  ----------  ----------  ----------
                                                                  (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS, EXCEPT RATIOS)
<S>                                                     <C>         <C>        <C>         <C>         <C>
Earnings
  Income before provision for taxes on income,
   minority interests and cumulative effect of
   accounting changes.................................  $  1,861.5  $   851.4  $  1,534.8  $    943.7  $  1,103.3
      Less: Minority interests........................         4.6        2.6         2.7         3.2         4.2
          Undistributed earnings (losses) of
          unconsolidated subsidiaries.................         (.7)        .7         8.5         0.8        (0.3)
                                                        ----------  ---------  ----------  ----------  ----------
  Adjusted income.....................................     1,857.6      848.1     1,523.6       939.7     1,099.4
  Fixed charges, excluding capitalized interest.......       158.4      135.6       130.1       155.2       153.8
                                                        ----------  ---------  ----------  ----------  ----------
      Total earnings..................................  $  2,016.0  $   983.7  $  1,653.7  $  1,094.9  $  1,253.2
                                                        ----------  ---------  ----------  ----------  ----------
                                                        ----------  ---------  ----------  ----------  ----------
  Fixed Charges
    Interest expense (including amortization of debt
     discount and expenses and capitalized
     interest)........................................  $    141.6  $   120.5  $    115.6  $    138.1  $    142.4
    One-third of rental expense.......................        31.5       29.1        26.7        25.1        21.3
                                                        ----------  ---------  ----------  ----------  ----------
      Total fixed charges.............................  $    173.1  $   149.6  $    142.3  $    163.2  $    163.7
                                                        ----------  ---------  ----------  ----------  ----------
                                                        ----------  ---------  ----------  ----------  ----------
Ratio of earnings to fixed charges (a)................        11.6        6.6        11.6         6.7         7.7
                                                        ----------  ---------  ----------  ----------  ----------
                                                        ----------  ---------  ----------  ----------  ----------
<FN>
------------------------

(a)  "Earnings" consist of income before provision for taxes on income, minority
     interests  and  cumulative  effect  of  accounting  changes  less  minority
     interests  and  less  undistributed  earnings  (losses)  of  unconsolidated
     subsidiaries  adjusted for  fixed charges,  excluding capitalized interest.
     "Fixed charges" consist of interest expense, amortization of debt  discount
     and  expenses, capitalized interest and  one-third of rental expense, which
     the Company believes to be a conservative estimate of an interest factor in
     its leases, which are not material.
</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-13.A
<SEQUENCE>6
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 13(A)
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

FINANCIAL REVIEW

SIGNIFICANT EVENTS AFFECTING COMPARABILITY

The comparability of income statement data is affected by the following:

/ /  In September 1993, the Company recorded a $750 million pre-tax charge ($525
     million after-tax) for certain restructuring and unusual items. This charge
     covered restructuring costs, including personnel reductions and the
     writedown of certain tangible assets as well as intangible assets whose
     carrying value would not have been recovered through future cash flows.

/ /  In October 1992, the Company sold approximately 60% of its interest in
     Minerals Technologies Inc. (MTI), a wholly owned company comprised of the
     Company's specialty minerals businesses. The net proceeds ($226.6 million)
     approximated the net book value of the interest sold. In April 1993, the
     Company's remaining interest was sold, resulting in a pre-tax gain of
     approximately $60 million.

/ /  In 1992, the Company adopted new accounting standards for postretirement
     health care and life insurance benefits and for income taxes. These
     standards resulted in a one-time net after-tax charge ($282.6 million),
     with no effect on cash flows. Postretirement benefit curtailment gains
     ($56.5 million) related to 1992 divestitures were included in divestitures,
     restructuring and unusual items--net.

/ /  In June 1992, the Company sold its Coty business, resulting in a pre-tax
     gain of $258.6 million which was substantially offset by charges associated
     with restructuring, consolidation and streamlining of certain of the
     Company's businesses.

/ /  In March 1992, the Company sold certain product lines and other assets of
     Shiley Incorporated to Sorin Biomedica S.p.A. for approximately $230
     million, resulting in a gain which was used to offset costs associated with
     the Bowling Settlement Agreement. See the footnote "Litigation" beginning
     on page 49 for additional information.

OVERVIEW OF CONSOLIDATED OPERATING RESULTS

Restructuring initiatives and various divestitures over the past several years
were taken in order to position the Company as a research-based, health care
company operating in global markets.

     Net income in 1994 was $1,298.4 million, or $4.19 per share, compared with
$657.5 million, or $2.05 per share, in 1993. Excluding the net effects of
divestitures, restructuring and unusual items, net income and earnings per share
in 1993 would have been $1,183.9 million, or $3.70 per share. Operating results,
excluding the items noted above as well as certain phased-out product lines, are
referred to in this report as results of ongoing operations. On this ongoing
basis, net income and earnings per share for 1994 increased 10% and 13%,
respectively.

     Net sales in 1994 ($8,281.3 million) increased 11% compared with 1993.
Aggregate worldwide sales of the pharmaceutical products launched during the
1990s--Norvasc, Diflucan, Zoloft, Cardura, Zithromax and Glucotrol XL--
represented 33% and 25% of net sales for the years 1994 and 1993, respectively.
The 44% increase in sales of these six products compared with 1993 was almost
exclusively related to volume. These results continued to reflect the Company's
successful innovative research and development (R&D) efforts, which have
produced a broad product pipeline. In 1994, R&D expenditures were in excess of
$1.1 billion, an increase of 17% over 1993.

NET SALES

Net sales in 1994 increased $803.6 million, or 11% over 1993. Net sales in 1993
increased $247.5 million, or 3% over 1992. Net sales from ongoing operations in
1993 increased 9% over 1992. Both the U.S. and international markets reflected
net sales increases in 1994 and 1993. In 1994, the Company registered net sales
of more than $10 million in each of 43 countries outside the U.S., with no
single country, other than the U.S. and Japan, contributing more than 10% to
total net sales.

     The following tables detail net sales by segment on a reported and ongoing
basis for 1994 and 1993. For 1994, the reported and ongoing net sales amounts
were the same.

1994 NET SALES BY SEGMENT

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                   % CHANGE COMPARED WITH
                                           AS    --------------------------
(MILLIONS OF DOLLARS)                REPORTED    AS REPORTED        ONGOING
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                  <C>         <C>                <C>

Health Care                          $6,963.0             12             12
Animal Health                           605.3              5              5
Consumer Health Care                    409.0             10             10
Food Science                            304.0             (4)             0
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Total                             $8,281.3             11             11
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>


NET SALES

(The table below was represented by a graph in the printed Annual Report.)

Net Sales
(millions of dollars)

           U.S.    International    Total
-----------------------------------------
1990      3,473        2,933        6,406
-----------------------------------------
1991      3,809        3,141        6,950
-----------------------------------------
1992      3,888        3,342        7,230
-----------------------------------------
1993      4,006        3,472        7,478
-----------------------------------------
1994      4,411        3,870        8,281
-----------------------------------------

The 1994 sales increase of 11% was spearheaded
by growth in pharmaceutical products.


26
<PAGE>


1993 NET SALES BY SEGMENT

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                      AS           %                      %
(MILLIONS OF DOLLARS)           REPORTED      CHANGE      ONGOING    CHANGE
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                             <C>           <C>        <C>         <C>

Health Care                     $6,210.3          11     $6,210.3        11
Animal Health                      578.0           3        578.0         3
Consumer Health Care               373.5          (8)       373.5         0
Food Science*                      315.9         (51)       303.8        (8)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Total                        $7,477.7           3     $7,465.6         9
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

</TABLE>

PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN NET SALES--AS REPORTED

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                     ANALYSIS OF CHANGE
                                 TOTAL %         --------------------------
                                  CHANGE         VOLUME     PRICE  CURRENCY
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                              <C>             <C>        <C>    <C>

Health Care
   1994 vs. 1993                      12             12         0         0
   1993 vs. 1992                      11             11         2        (2)

Animal Health
   1994 vs. 1993                       5              3         1         1
   1993 vs. 1992                       3              0         6        (3)

Consumer Health Care
   1994 vs. 1993                      10              9         1         0
   1993 vs. 1992                      (8)            (9)        2        (1)

Food Science
   1994 vs. 1993                      (4)            (2)       (2)        0
   1993 vs. 1992*                    (51)           (52)        1         0

Consolidated
   1994 vs. 1993                      11             11         0         0
   1993 vs. 1992                       3              3         2        (2)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
<FN>
*REFLECTS THE SALE OF MTI IN 1992.

</TABLE>

     There was no price impact on 1994 net sales growth. In 1993, the Company's
average pharmaceutical price increases in the U.S. were below the increase in
the U.S. Consumer Price Index.

     The increase in 1993 consolidated net sales included a 9% rise in unit
volume from ongoing operations, offset by a reduction of 6% applicable to net
sales of businesses divested in 1992.

     Reported 1994 and 1993 net sales for the health care segment reflected a
13% increase in worldwide pharmaceutical sales in both years.

     The following table shows percentage sales growth of the Company's major
pharmaceuticals:


PERCENTAGE CHANGE IN NET SALES--MAJOR PHARMACEUTICALS

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                       % INCREASE/(DECREASE)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                       94/93          93/92
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                    <C>            <C>

Cardiovasculars:
   Procardia XL                                            0             11
   Norvasc                                                85            119
   Cardura                                                27             40
Anti-Infectives:
   Diflucan                                               14             19
   Zithromax                                              43             82
   Unasyn                                                 (5)             7
Central Nervous System Agents:
   Zoloft                                                 55            138
Anti-Inflammatories:
   Feldene                                               (16)           (41)
Antidiabetes Agents:
   Glucotrol/Glucotrol XL                                (15)            13
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

     Procardia XL sales totaled $1.2 billion in 1994, an amount comparable to
the 1993 sales level. The underlying demand for Procardia XL declined modestly
in 1994. Decreases in Feldene and Glucotrol sales were attributable to a
combination of generic competition and new competitive brand-name products.

     The 1990 Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act included a provision requiring
pharmaceutical companies to rebate a portion of revenues from pharmaceutical
products dispensed to state Medicaid recipients. Medicaid rebates and related
state programs reduced net sales by $74 million in 1994 and $70 million in 1993.
In addition, the Company provided approximately $56 million and $51 million in
discounts to the federal government in 1994 and 1993, respectively.
Performance-based contracts with several customers in the U.S. reduced the price
impact on net sales for 1994, but were offset by increases in volume.

     Net sales of the Hospital Products Group increased 6% and 2% in 1994 and
1993, respectively. Hospital Products continues to benefit from new product
introductions and from the success of its coronary catheters and stents,
although sales trends in this group continue to be tempered by overall market
conditions. The Hospital Products business was adversely affected in 1993 by
events influencing the industry in general, principally the deferral of medical
procedures and changes in purchasing practices, including shifts to lower-cost
products and reduced hospital inventories. Foreign exchange reduced net sales
growth from 6% to 2% for 1993.

     Net sales in the animal health segment increased 5% in 1994 and reflected
the strong performance of Dectomax, particularly in Latin America, where sales
increased 21%. Net sales increased 3% in 1993 owing to strong U.S. sales of
Terramycin/Liquamycin LA-200 and the growth of Dectomax and Advocin in
international markets.

(The table below was represented by a graph in the printed Annual Report.)

Composition of Net Sales Growth
(As Reported)

           Price     Volume     Currency
----------------------------------------
1992         3%        0%          1%
----------------------------------------
1993         2%        3%         -2%
----------------------------------------
1994         0%       11%          0%
----------------------------------------

1994 sales growth was driven entirely by volume.
Aggregate sales of the six pharmaceutical products
launched in the 1990s increased by 44%.


                                                                              27
<PAGE>

     Net sales in the consumer health care segment increased 10% in 1994,
reflecting improved U.S. market share in Desitin, Unisom, BenGay and Rid, line
extensions of certain existing products and international expansion. Net sales
in 1993 decreased 8% from 1992, primarily as a result of the sale of the Coty
business, strong private-label competition and a weak economy.

     Net sales in the food science segment declined 4% in 1994, reflecting the
continuing phase-out of commodity chemicals in favor of specialty food products,
sales of which increased 13%. Net sales in 1993 declined 51% primarily because
of the October 1992 divestment of MTI and the Company's de-emphasis and
phase-out of commodity chemicals.

     An analysis of percentage changes in reported net sales in the U.S. and
international markets and the percentage of consolidated net sales by business
segment follows:

UNITED STATES OPERATIONS

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                       % INCREASE/(DECREASE)
                                                               IN NET SALES
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                         1994           1993           1992
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                      <C>            <C>            <C>

Health Care                                12             12             14
Animal Health                              (1)             7              0
Consumer Health Care                        4            (13)           (45)
Food Science                               (2)           (56)*          (10)*
   Total U.S. Operations                   10              3              2
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

</TABLE>

INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                       % INCREASE/(DECREASE)
                                                               IN NET SALES
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                         1994           1993           1992
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                      <C>            <C>            <C>

Health Care                                13              9             10
Animal Health                               7              1             10
Consumer Health Care                       22              6            (30)
Food Science                               (6)           (44)*          (11)*
   Total International Operations          11              4              6
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
<FN>
*REFLECTS THE SALE OF MTI IN 1992.

</TABLE>

(The table below was represented by a graph in the printed Annual Report.)

Production Margin as Percentage of Net Sales

1990     65%
1991     68%
1992     72%
1993     76%
1994     77%

Improvement in production margin was essentially attributable
to the divestiture of low-margin businesses, cost reductions
and favorable product mix.


DIVERSIFICATION BY BUSINESS

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                % OF CONSOLIDATED NET SALES
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                         1994           1993           1992
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                      <C>            <C>            <C>

Health Care                                84             83             78
Animal Health                               7              8              8
Consumer Health Care                        5              5              5
Food Science                                4              4*             9*
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Consolidated                              100            100            100
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
<FN>
*REFLECTS THE SALE OF MTI IN 1992.

</TABLE>

     Geographically, the Company's business is diversified, as shown in the
following table:

DIVERSIFICATION BY GEOGRAPHIC AREA

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                % OF CONSOLIDATED NET SALES
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                         1994           1993           1992
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                      <C>            <C>            <C>

U.S.                                       53             54             54
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Europe                                     22             22             24
Asia                                       15             15             14
Canada/Latin America                        8              7              6
Africa/Middle East                          2              2              2
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
   International                           47             46             46
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Consolidated                              100            100            100
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

</TABLE>

PRODUCT DEVELOPMENTS

The table below lists the Company's pending New Drug Applications (NDAs) and the
related filing dates with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA):


PRODUCT             INDICATIONS                                  DATE FILED
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cetirizine          Pediatric                                  January 1993
Enable              Osteo- and rheumatoid arthritis           December 1993
Unasyn              Injectable antibiotic--pediatric          November 1993
Zithromax           Sexually transmitted diseases             December 1994
Zoloft              Obsessive-compulsive disorder                  May 1992
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

     In November 1994, the Company received approval from the FDA for the
marketing of Diflucan for pediatric use. In addition, Cardura gained marketing
clearance from the FDA for the treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia in
February 1995.In 1995, the Company was advised by the FDA that the following
chemical entities were approvable: Zithromax, an oral antibiotic, for pediatric
indications and cetirizine, an oral antihistamine, for allergic rhinitis and
chronic urticaria.

     The Company currently has 15 new chemical entities in advanced development.


28
<PAGE>

INCOME BEFORE TAXES AND NET INCOME

The components of income before taxes and net income, expressed as a percentage
of net sales, for the years 1994, 1993 and 1992 are reflected in the following
table:

ANALYSIS OF INCOME BEFORE TAXES AND NET INCOME

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                                                  % INCREASE/
                                                                                                                    (DECREASE)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(MILLIONS OF DOLLARS)                                        1994           1993           1992          94/93          93/92
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                      <C>            <C>            <C>               <C>            <C>

Net sales                                                $8,281.3       $7,477.7       $7,230.2             11              3
Cost of sales                                            $1,918.6       $1,772.0       $2,024.3              8            (12)
   % of net sales                                           23.2%          23.7%          28.0%
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Production margin                                        $6,362.7       $5,705.7       $5,205.9             12             10
   % of net sales                                           76.8%          76.3%          72.0%
Selling, informational and administrative expenses       $3,250.8       $3,066.0       $2,899.3              6              6
   % of net sales                                           39.3%          41.0%          40.1%
R&D expenses                                             $1,139.4       $  974.4       $  863.2             17             13
   % of net sales                                           13.7%          13.0%          11.9%
Divestitures, restructuring and unusual items--net             --       $  752.0       $ (110.5)             *              *
   % of net sales                                              --          10.1%          (1.5%)
Other deductions--net                                    $  111.0          $61.9       $   19.1             79            224
   % of net sales                                            1.3%            .8%            .3%
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income before taxes                                      $1,861.5       $  851.4       $1,534.8            119            (45)
   % of net sales                                           22.5%          11.4%          21.2%
Taxes on income                                          $  558.5       $  191.3       $  438.6            192            (56)
Effective tax rate                                          30.0%          22.5%          28.6%
Net income                                               $1,298.4       $  657.5       $  810.9             97            (19)
   % of net sales                                           15.7%           8.8%          11.2%
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<FN>
*CALCULATION NOT MEANINGFUL.

</TABLE>

     Production margin, as a percentage of net sales, increased in 1994 compared
with 1993. The improvement was attributable to the Company's cost-containment
program and favorable product mix reflecting continued growth in the
pharmaceutical business.

     The 1994 increase in selling, informational and administrative expenses
(SI&A) over 1993 was primarily due to the rollout of new products and support
for recently launched products, particularly in the international markets. As a
percentage of net sales, SI&A decreased in 1994 compared with 1993. This
decrease reflects restrained growth in marketing expenses relative to the prior
year, as well as the beneficial impact of the Company's continuous improvement
and restructuring programs. The 1993 increase in selling expenses reflects costs
associated with the launch of new products.

     SI&A includes expenses incurred in communicating scientific, medical and
clinical information about the Company's various products to the medical
community and others. In response to the changes in the health care environment,
the Company adopted a strategy in 1994 which focuses on  the diverse needs of
managed care customers and decision makers. Health care information is also
communicated  by means of Company sponsorship of medical symposia and
conventions, as well as through distribution of informative literature
concerning the Company's products. Also included in this category are
advertising expenses associated with  the  production and purchase of print
space in magazines/journals and media time on radio and television comprising
approximately 8% of SI&A expenses. A significant portion  of such expenditures
are for the Company's consumer health care business.

     R&D expenses reflect a 15% compound growth rate from 1992 through 1994.
Health care R&D expenses, expressed as a percentage of health care net sales,
were 14.9%, 14.3% and 13.6% for 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively. In 1995, the
Company plans to spend approximately $1.4 billion on R&D.

     Other deductions--net are summarized in the following table:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

(MILLIONS OF DOLLARS)                    1994           1993           1992
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                   <C>            <C>            <C>

Interest income                       $(123.0)       $(163.5)       $(184.6)
Interest expense                        126.9          106.5          103.4
Other income                            (20.0)         (34.6)         (34.6)
Other deductions                        127.1          153.5          134.9
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Other deductions--net                 $ 111.0        $  61.9        $  19.1
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

</TABLE>

     Interest income decreased in 1994 from 1993 primarily because of changes in
the Company's capital structure. The decline in interest income in 1993 was
caused by lower interest rates.

     Interest expense increased in 1994 from 1993 as a result of changes in the
scope and nature of the Company's foreign exchange hedging program and higher
interest rates. The increase in interest expense in 1993 was primarily due to
higher average borrowing levels, partially offset by lower interest rates.

     Other deductions included net exchange losses of $1.5, $40.0 and $22.8
million in 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively. In addition, amortization of
intangibles was approximately $13.8, $13.3 and $16.9 million in 1994, 1993 and
1992, respectively.

     On an ongoing basis, income before taxes was $258.1 million higher in 1994
than in 1993, even though the Company increased the investment in its R&D
program. This increase was primarily attributable to the Company's aggressive
development of a large number of drug candidates. As a percentage of net sales,
the decrease in cost of sales and SI&A expenses more than offset the increase in
R&D expenses and Other deductions--net, so that income before taxes, as a
percentage of net sales, increased. This improved performance resulted from a
favorable business mix, moderation in expense growth and initial benefits of
restructuring. The increase in ongoing income before taxes in 1993 was primarily
attributable to improved production margins.

     Excluding the impact of nonrecurring items from 1993 results, income before
taxes and net income would have been


                                                                              29
<PAGE>

$1,603.4 million and $1,183.9 million, respectively. The 1993 effective tax rate
of 22.5% would have been 26%.

     The Company's effective tax rate increased from an ongoing rate of 26% in
1993 to 30% in 1994 as a result of various changes contained in the Omnibus
Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993 which, among other provisions, included the
imposition of a limitation on the tax credit allowed to the Company for tax
years beginning after December 31, 1993 for U.S. tax on income earned in Puerto
Rico, where the Company has a major manufacturing facility.

     The Internal Revenue Service is currently auditing the years 1987 through
1989. For further details, see the footnote "Taxes on Income" beginning on page
44.

     The following tables show profit/(loss) by business segment on a reported
and ongoing basis for 1994 and 1993:

1994 SEGMENT PROFIT

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                   % CHANGE COMPARED WITH
                                           AS    --------------------------
(MILLIONS OF DOLLARS)                REPORTED*   AS REPORTED        ONGOING
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                  <C>         <C>                <C>

Health Care                          $1,976.6             75             22
Animal Health                            47.4             **             26
Consumer Health Care                     34.1             **              9
Food Science                             31.0             93             12
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                $2,089.1            101             22
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

<FN>
*REPORTED AND ONGOING AMOUNTS ARE THE SAME.

</TABLE>

1993 SEGMENT PROFIT/(LOSS)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                      AS           %                      %
(MILLIONS OF DOLLARS)           REPORTED      CHANGE      ONGOING    CHANGE
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                             <C>           <C>        <C>         <C>

Health Care                     $1,129.9          (9)    $1,621.8        18
Animal Health                       (5.8)         **         37.5        (9)
Consumer Health Care              (102.3)         **         31.3        (7)
Food Science                        16.1         (23)        27.6        14
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                           $1,037.9         (36)    $1,718.2        17
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

<FN>
** CALCULATION NOT MEANINGFUL.

</TABLE>

     For further details, see the footnote "Segment Information and Geographic
Data" on page 52.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Company operations in 1994 provided a positive cash flow which, supplemented by
the ability to issue commercial paper and maintenance of other worldwide credit
facilities, provided adequate liquidity to meet the Company's operational needs.
Cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments are principal measures of
liquidity. These items amounted to $2.0, $1.2 and $1.7 billion at December 31,
1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                   1994      1993      1992
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                              <C>     <C>       <C>

Working capital (millions of dollars)            $962.5  $1,289.6  $2,167.4
Current ratio                                    1.20:1    1.37:1    1.67:1
Debt to total capitalization                        40%       31%       28%
Shareholders' equity per common share*           $14.20  $  12.43  $  14.51
Days of sales outstanding                            60        63        57
Months of inventory on hand                         8.6       8.5       8.1
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
<FN>
*REPRESENTS SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY DIVIDED BY THE ACTUAL NUMBER OF COMMON SHARES
OUTSTANDING.

</TABLE>

     The increase in the percentage of debt to total capitalization in 1994
versus 1993 was primarily due to share purchases and an increase in short-term
borrowings. The increase in the percentage of debt to total capitalization in
1993 versus 1992 was due to a decrease in shareholders' equity arising from the
Company's program of purchasing its common stock.

     The increase in shareholders' equity per common share to $14.20 in 1994
from $12.43 in the preceding year was due to the Company's enhanced
profitability resulting from growth in sales of its new pharmaceutical products,
partially offset by the stock purchase program. The decrease in shareholders'
equity per common share to $12.43 in 1993 from $14.51 in 1992 was due to the
Company's program of purchasing its common stock.

     The table below summarizes the Company's cash flows from operating,
investing and financing activities:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

(MILLIONS OF DOLLARS)                                                       1994           1993           1992
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                     <C>            <C>            <C>

Cash provided by/(used in):
   Operating activities                                                 $1,488.5       $1,263.0       $  807.0
   Investing activities                                                   (840.3)        (196.9)         389.9
   Financing activities                                                     61.9       (1,567.0)      (1,228.0)
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents                19.0          (26.8)         (29.4)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents                    $  729.1       $ (527.7)      $  (60.5)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

</TABLE>

OPERATING ACTIVITIES

Cash provided by operating activities amounted to $1,488.5 million in 1994 and
was primarily attributable to income generated by the introduction of new
pharmaceutical products and new indications for existing pharmaceutical
products. The $456.0 million increase in cash generated by operating activities
in 1993 was primarily a result of higher income before taxes, excluding
restructuring charges.

     The environment in which the Company operates has undergone significant
change, as evidenced by the increase and change in competition, global health
care reform and the reduction of residual trade barriers in North America and
Europe. In 1993, the Company initiated a program which recognized the need to
restructure its global operations in response to such changes. The 1993
worldwide restructuring program encompasses more than 60 operations located in
over 25 countries. Restructuring actions include the consolidation of
manufacturing facilities with the planned elimination of 4 facilities in the
U.S. and 32 facilities internationally, the demolition of buildings resulting
from the consolidation, reconfiguration and rehabilitation of remaining
facilities and the consolidation of distribution and administrative
organizations and infrastructures, including the consolidation of U.S.
distribution facilities from 6 to 2 and the consolidation of finance
organizations in Europe from 34 to 6. Such actions are expected to result in a
reduction of approximately 3,000 employees. This program will require three
years to complete, given the global scope and nature of the programs involved
and the need to comply with various legal requirements.


30
<PAGE>

Since the program's initiation, the workforce has been reduced by approximately
900 people and 9 facilities have been closed. The initiatives are projected to
lower annual operating costs by at least $130 million when the full benefits of
efficiencies are realized. The annualized benefit of completed restructuring
efforts through December 31, 1994 is approximately $48 million. Through December
31, 1994, there have been no significant changes in estimates of the cost of the
plan. For further information regarding the components of the charge, see the
"Divestitures, Restructuring and Unusual Items" footnote on page 44.

     Cash outlays for 1994 and 1993 related to the restructuring totaled $91.7
and $41.4 million, respectively. Expected cash outlays, funded through
operations, for the next two years are approximately $130 and $150 million,
respectively.

INVESTING ACTIVITIES

Cash used in investing activities increased $643.4 million because of the
increase in short-term investments, the change in loans and long-term
investments by financial subsidiaries and the fact that there were no sales of
businesses in 1994. Investing activities in 1993 reflected proceeds from the
sale of the Company's remaining interest in MTI.

     Capital expenditures are primarily funded through operating activities. The
current research expansion programs undertaken at Groton, Connecticut and
Sandwich, England are expected to be completed in 1996 at a total cost of
approximately $500 million. In addition, the Company is in the process of
completing a major pharmaceutical capacity replacement project at its Groton
facility. This is expected to be completed in 1995 at a projected capital
expenditure of approximately $190 million. The construction of the Company's
pharmaceutical plant in Dalian, China was completed in 1993 as part of a joint
venture.

FINANCING ACTIVITIES

Cash provided by financing activities in 1994 increased by $1,628.9 million from
1993. This increase related to higher levels of short-term borrowings used to
fund working capital needs as well as certain short-term investment
opportunities. In addition, cash used for the completion of stock purchase
programs decreased in 1994 as compared with 1993. Share purchases were funded
through cash generated by operating activities.

     Cash dividends paid to shareholders in 1994 were $594.6 million compared
with $536.1 million in 1993 and reflected a 12% increase in the annual dividend
rate from $1.68 to $1.88 per common share. This increase was partially offset by
the Company's purchase of its common shares.

     In December 1994, the Company announced that it planned to purchase up to
2.25 million shares of its common stock from time to time in the open market.
Under this plan, approximately 1.0 million shares were purchased in 1994 at a
cost of $74.8 million. The shares purchased under this plan are intended for use
in the acquisition of NAMIC U.S.A. Corporation (NAMIC) announced in October
1994.

     In August 1993, the Company sold 10 million shares of treasury stock to the
Pfizer Inc. Grantor Trust (the Trust), an employee benefit trust which will
primarily fund future obligations for previously approved benefit plans. The
Trust acquired common stock from the Company in exchange for a promissory note
of approximately $600 million. The amount, representing unearned employee
benefits, has been recorded as a deduction from shareholders' equity and will be
reduced as employee benefits are satisfied.

     In February 1993, the Company announced a program to purchase up to 20
million shares of its common stock in the open market or in privately negotiated
transactions. Under this program, 7.5 and 12.5 million shares were purchased in
the open market at a cost of approximately $436.4 and $804.0 million in 1994 and
1993, respectively, thereby completing the 20 million share purchase program.
These shares are available for use in the Company's employee benefit plans and
for general corporate purposes.

     The August 1992 program to purchase 10 million shares of its common stock
was completed in 1993 at a total cost of $721.6 million.

     The Company maintains lines of credit and revolving-credit agreements with
a select group of banks and other financial intermediaries. Its major unused
lines of credit totaled approximately $1.1 billion at December 31, 1994.

     An indicator of the Company's financial strength is that its senior debt
has been rated Aaa by Moody's Investors Services (Moody's) and AAA by Standard
and Poor's (S&P)--their highest ratings--for the past nine years. Moody's and
S&P are the major corporate rating organizations.

BANKING OPERATION

The Company's international banking operation, Pfizer International Bank Europe
(PIBE), operates under a full banking license from the Central Bank of Ireland.
PIBE extends credit to financially strong borrowers largely through U.S. dollar
loans made primarily for the short and medium term, with floating interest
rates. Generally, loans are made on an unsecured basis. When deemed appropriate,
guarantees and certain covenants may be obtained as a condition to the extension
of credit. To reduce credit risk, all borrowers must satisfy credit approval
guidelines, which also establish borrowing limits and monitoring procedures.
Credit risk is further reduced through an active policy of diversification with
respect to borrower, industry and geographic location. The net income of PIBE is
affected by fluctuations in market interest rates because of repricing and
maturity mismatches between its interest-sensitive assets and liabilities. When
PIBE is asset sensitive (more assets repricing in a given period than
liabilities), net income would be benefited in a


                                                                              31
<PAGE>

period of increasing interest rates. PIBE's asset and liability management
reflects its liquidity, interest-rate outlook and general market conditions. The
interest-rate sensitivity of PIBE's largely U.S. dollar-denominated
floating-rate asset portfolio is largely offset by the corresponding
interest-rate sensitivity inherent in the Company's U.S. dollar-denominated
short-term debt. PIBE enters into interest-rate swaps, currency swaps and
forward-rate agreements as vehicles to manage the interest-rate sensitivity of
the portfolio.

     The following table summarizes the composition of the loan portfolios, the
most significant of the interest-earning assets held by the international
banking operations, at November 30, 1994, 1993 and 1992:

BORROWERS

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

(MILLIONS OF DOLLARS)                    1994           1993           1992
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                    <C>            <C>            <C>

Commercial and industrial              $526.3         $569.1         $587.2
Government                              139.7           91.9          210.0
Financial institutions                  120.9          146.6          177.7
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                  $786.9         $807.6         $974.9
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

</TABLE>

MATURITIES

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

(MILLIONS OF DOLLARS)                    1994           1993           1992
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                    <C>            <C>            <C>

Within one year                        $361.3         $456.9         $628.3
One to five years                       425.6          350.7          346.6
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                  $786.9         $807.6         $974.9
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

</TABLE>

The following table shows the percentage of interest-earning assets of the
international banking operations (including interest-bearing deposits, loans and
Eurosecurities) by country of the borrower, depository, issuer or guarantor,
where the total for such country is 3% or more of the total assets of the
international banking operations:

                                                    % OF BANKING OPERATIONS
                                                               TOTAL ASSETS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                         1994           1993           1992
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
U.K.                                       19             19             19
U.S.                                       17              8              8
Switzerland                                12              7              5
Netherlands                                11              9              6
Denmark                                     8             12              9
France                                      8             12              8
Italy                                       7              6             20
Sweden                                      6              4              7
Canada                                      5             13             15
Germany                                     4              5             --
Spain                                      --              5             --
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

PROSPECTIVE INFORMATION

SUBSEQUENT EVENTS

On January 19, 1995, the Company acquired SmithKline Beecham's animal health
business for approximately $1.45 billion substantially financed by the
issuance of commercial paper. The Company expects to acquire NAMIC in a
stock-for-stock transaction, valued at approximately $175 million, in the
first quarter of 1995.

     On February 23, 1995, the Company announced that its Board of Directors
intends to vote on a two-for-one split of Pfizer common stock on April 27, 1995.
At the annual meeting to take place on the same date, shareholders will vote on
a proposal to increase the authorized shares and reduce the par value of the
Company's common stock.

HEALTH CARE REFORM PROPOSAL

The Company's primary markets are highly competitive and subject to substantial
governmental regulation. In the U.S., legislation proposing changes in the
health care system was not enacted in 1994. New legislation may be introduced in
1995 and may make changes in the availability, delivery and payment for health
care products and services. International operations are also subject to a
degree of government regulation.

     While the Company cannot predict with certainty the nature of the potential
future U.S. reforms, whether or not they will be enacted and the impact they may
have on its U.S. business, pressures on pricing and operating results as a
result of market competition are expected to continue in 1995.

COMPETITION

Mature products of the Company's pharmaceutical business will face significant
exposure from competitive brand names and generic competition during the next
several years. Feldene and Glucotrol have been subject to generic competition
since 1992 and 1994, respectively. The majority of the unfavorable impact on
Feldene sales was felt in 1993 and 1994. The combined U.S. net sales of these
products were $203, $308 and $473 million in 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively.
In mid-1993, the FDA approved an NDA for a competitor's sustained-release form
of nifedipine for the treatment of hypertension. This product uses a different
delivery system from the patented technology used in Procardia XL, the Company's
product, which has a delivery system that is patent-protected until 2003. Other
forms of sustained-release nifedipine have been reported to be in various stages
of development by other companies. It is not possible to predict the impact of
possible future competition on sales of Procardia XL.

GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE (GATT)

In December 1994, the U.S. Congress ratified the GATT world trade agreement. A
key provision relates to intellectual property protection. The 10-year
transition period relating to the major pharmaceutical patent-infringing
countries such as Brazil, Turkey, Argentina and India will result, however, in


32
<PAGE>

the continued discrimination against patents filed prior to the effective date
of the agreement. Necessary changes in the U.S. patent law have resulted in
limited extensions of the terms of patents for some of the Company's products.

FOREIGN EXCHANGE

Net sales outside the U.S. represented 47% and 46% of total sales in 1994 and
1993, respectively. Exchange-rate fluctuations had no impact on the Company's
net sales in 1994 and marginal impact in 1993. Sales and earnings growth in 1995
could be adversely affected if the U.S. dollar strengthens. The Company manages
its foreign exchange risk through a variety of techniques. For further details,
see the footnote "Financial Instruments and Concentrations of Credit Risk"
beginning on page 42.

LITIGATION AND ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

Claims have been brought against the Company and its subsidiaries for various
legal matters. In addition, the Company's operations are subject to federal,
state and local environmental laws and regulations. For further details, see the
footnote "Litigation" beginning on page 49.

DIVIDEND GROWTH

The dividend payout ratio amounted to 44.9%, 82.0% and 61.4% in 1994, 1993 and
1992, respectively. Excluding the effect of divestitures, restructuring and
unusual items--net, this ratio would have been 45.4% and 48.4% in 1993 and 1992,
respectively.

     In January 1995, the Board of Directors declared a first-quarter 1995
dividend increase of 11% to $.52 from $.47 in each quarter of 1994.  This marked
the 28th consecutive year of dividend increases.

INFLATION AND CHANGING PRICES

Inflation, although moderate in many parts of the world during 1994, continues
to affect worldwide economies. Inflation had no material impact on the Company's
operations throughout the period.


RESPONSIBILITY FOR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SYSTEM OF INTERNAL CONTROL

The financial statements which appear on pages 35 through 53 were prepared by
and are the responsibility of the Company's management. These financial
statements are in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles and,
therefore, include amounts based upon informed judgments and estimates.
Management also accepts responsibility for the preparation of other financial
information included in this document.

     The Company's management has designed a system of internal control to
safeguard its assets, ensure that transactions are properly authorized and
provide reasonable assurance, at reasonable cost, as to the integrity,
objectivity and reliability of financial information. Even an effective internal
control system, regardless of how well designed, has inherent limitations and,
therefore, can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial
statement preparation. The system is built on a business ethics policy that
requires all employees to maintain the highest ethical standards in conducting
Company affairs. The system of internal control includes careful selection,
training and development of financial managers, an organizational structure that
segregates responsibilities and a communications program which ensures that
Company policies and procedures are well understood throughout the organization.
The Company also has an extensive program of internal audits, with prompt
follow-up, including reviews of separate Company operations and functions around
the world.

     The Company's independent certified public accountants, KPMG Peat Marwick
LLP, have audited the annual financial statements in accordance with generally
accepted auditing standards. The independent auditors' report expresses an
informed judgment as to the fair presentation of the Company's reported
operating results, financial position and cash flows. This judgment is based on
the results of auditing procedures performed and such other tests that they
deemed necessary, including consideration of the Company's internal control
structure.

     Recommendations made by KPMG Peat Marwick LLP and the Company's internal
auditors are considered and appropriate action taken with respect to these
recommendations. The Company believes that its system of internal control is
effective and adequate to accomplish the objectives discussed above.

/s/ William C. Steere, Jr.

W. C. Steere, Jr.

PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER

/s/ H. McKinnell

H. McKinnell, Ph.D.

PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER

/s/ H. V. Ryan

H. V. Ryan

PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING OFFICER


February 23, 1995


                                                                              33
<PAGE>

AUDIT COMMITTEE'S REPORT

The Board of Directors reviews the audit function, internal controls and the
financial statements largely through its Audit Committee, which consists solely
of directors who are not Company employees. The Audit Committee meets at least
quarterly with management, the independent auditors and internal auditors
concerning their respective responsibilities. Among its various duties, the
Audit Committee recommends the appointment of the Company's independent
auditors. Both KPMG Peat Marwick LLP and the internal auditors have full access
to the Audit Committee and meet with it, without management present, to discuss
the scope and results of their examinations including internal control, audit
and financial reporting matters.

/s/ Stanley O. Ikenberry

S. O. Ikenberry, Ph.D.

CHAIR, AUDIT COMMITTEE


February 23, 1995


INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

KPMG Peat Marwick LLP

CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

To the Shareholders and Board of Directors of Pfizer Inc:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of Pfizer Inc and
subsidiary companies as of December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992 and the related
consolidated statements of income, shareholders' equity and cash flows for each
of the years then ended. These consolidated financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits.

     We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are
free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
consolidated financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

     In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Pfizer Inc
and subsidiary companies at December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992, and the results of
their operations and their cash flows for each of the years then ended, in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.

     As discussed in the notes to the consolidated financial statements, the
Company adopted the provisions of the Financial Accounting Standards Board's
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 106, EMPLOYERS' ACCOUNTING FOR
POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS OTHER THAN PENSIONS, and Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 109, ACCOUNTING FOR INCOME TAXES, in 1992.

/S/ KPMG PEAT MARWICK LLP

345 Park Avenue
New York, NY 10154


February 23, 1995

34
<PAGE>

SEGMENT INFORMATION

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                          CONSUMER                   CORPORATE/
                                                       HEALTH    ANIMAL     HEALTH       FOOD         FINANCIAL
(MILLIONS OF DOLLARS)                                    CARE    HEALTH       CARE    SCIENCE (A)  SUBSIDIARIES (D)   CONSOLIDATED
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                   <C>        <C>       <C>       <C>           <C>                <C>

1994
Net sales                                            $6,963.0    $605.3    $ 409.0     $304.0          $     --          $ 8,281.3
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Segment profit                                       $1,976.6    $ 47.4    $  34.1     $ 31.0          $     --          $ 2,089.1
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Interest income                                                                                           123.0              123.0
Interest expense                                                                                         (126.9)            (126.9)
Net corporate expenses                                                                                   (223.7)            (223.7)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income before provision for taxes on income
  and minority interests                                                                                                  $1,861.5
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Identifiable assets                                  $5,388.1    $501.8    $ 205.3     $447.6          $4,555.7          $11,098.5

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Capital additions                                    $  482.5    $ 45.9    $  15.6     $ 58.3             $69.2          $   671.5
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Depreciation                                         $  216.3    $ 16.9    $   7.1     $ 19.3             $15.8          $   275.4
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1993
Net sales                                            $6,210.3    $578.0    $ 373.5     $315.9          $     --          $ 7,477.7
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Segment profit/(loss)(B)                             $1,129.9    $ (5.8)   $(102.3)    $ 16.1          $     --          $ 1,037.9
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Interest income                                                                                           163.5              163.5
Interest expense                                                                                         (106.5)            (106.5)
Net corporate expenses                                                                                   (243.5)            (243.5)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income before provision for taxes on income
  and minority interests                                                                                                 $   851.4
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Identifiable assets                                  $4,650.3    $444.6    $ 152.4     $374.4          $3,709.2          $ 9,330.9
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Capital additions                                    $  480.9    $ 39.2    $  15.4     $ 62.9             $35.8             $634.2
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Depreciation                                         $  182.6    $ 17.0    $   6.5     $ 19.6             $15.4             $241.1
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1992
Net sales                                            $5,613.9    $560.8    $ 404.6     $650.9          $     --          $ 7,230.2
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Segment profit(C)                                    $1,241.8    $ 41.2    $ 329.7     $ 21.0          $     --          $ 1,633.7
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Interest income                                                                                           184.6              184.6
Interest expense                                                                                         (103.4)            (103.4)
Net corporate expenses                                                                                   (180.1)            (180.1)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income before provision for taxes on income,
  minority interests and cumulative effect
  of accounting changes                                                                                                  $ 1,534.8
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Identifiable assets                                  $4,153.2    $478.6    $ 285.9     $368.9          $4,303.5          $ 9,590.1
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Capital additions                                    $  436.4    $ 41.3    $   9.2     $126.3             $61.0          $   674.2
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Depreciation                                         $  147.0    $ 13.7    $   6.9     $ 51.8             $23.2          $   242.6
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<FN>
(A)  INCLUDES THE RESULTS OF THE DIVESTED MINERALS BUSINESSES THROUGH OCTOBER
     30, 1992.
(B)  INCLUDES PRE-TAX CHARGES OF $750 MILLION AND APPROXIMATELY $62 MILLION TO
     COVER A WORLDWIDE RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM AS WELL AS UNUSUAL ITEMS. IT ALSO
     INCLUDES A GAIN OF APPROXIMATELY $60 MILLION REALIZED ON THE SALE OF THE
     COMPANY'S REMAINING INTEREST IN MTI. AMOUNTS DIRECTLY ATTRIBUTABLE TO
     INDIVIDUAL SEGMENTS HAVE BEEN ALLOCATED TO THEM. AMOUNTS NOT DIRECTLY
     TRACEABLE TO INDIVIDUAL SEGMENTS ARE INCLUDED IN NET CORPORATE EXPENSES.
(C)  INCLUDES A $110.5 MILLION NET CREDIT RELATING TO THE DIVESTITURE AND
     RESTRUCTURING OF CERTAIN OF THE COMPANY'S BUSINESSES AND CURTAILMENT GAINS
     ASSOCIATED WITH POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS OTHER THAN PENSIONS OF DIVESTED
     OPERATIONS. AMOUNTS DIRECTLY ATTRIBUTABLE TO INDIVIDUAL SEGMENTS HAVE BEEN
     ALLOCATED TO THEM. AMOUNTS NOT DIRECTLY TRACEABLE TO INDIVIDUAL SEGMENTS
     ARE INCLUDED IN NET CORPORATE EXPENSES.
(D)  SEGMENT INFORMATION FOR THE FINANCIAL SUBSIDIARIES CAN BE FOUND IN THE
     "FINANCIAL SUBSIDIARIES" FOOTNOTE ON PAGE 42.

</TABLE>

SEE NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS WHICH ARE AN INTEGRAL PART OF
THESE STATEMENTS.


                                                                              35
<PAGE>

GEOGRAPHIC DATA

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                                                      CANADA/
                                                                          UNITED                                        LATIN
(MILLIONS OF DOLLARS)                                                     STATES (A)     EUROPE           ASIA        AMERICA
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                     <C>            <C>            <C>             <C>

1994
Net sales                                                               $4,411.2       $1,816.4       $1,249.1         $619.4
Intercompany sales                                                         140.3          459.8           57.2           21.3
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                                                   $4,551.5       $2,276.2       $1,306.3         $640.7
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Geographic profit                                                       $1,426.8       $  534.6       $  115.2         $ 45.6
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Interest income
Interest expense
Net corporate expenses
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income before provision for taxes on
  income and minority interests
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Identifiable assets                                                     $2,768.1       $2,429.0       $1,303.4         $479.9
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1993
Net sales                                                               $4,006.0       $1,632.0       $1,131.9         $528.3
Intercompany sales                                                         134.5          489.6           23.1           20.4
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                                                   $4,140.5       $2,121.6       $1,155.0         $548.7
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Geographic profit/(loss)(B)                                             $  698.5       $  381.8       $   75.2         $  (.4)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Interest income
Interest expense
Net corporate expenses
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income before provision for taxes on
  income and minority interests
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Identifiable assets                                                     $2,598.2       $2,034.6       $1,198.2         $393.7
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1992
Net sales                                                               $3,888.2       $1,709.1       $1,012.7         $470.4
Intercompany sales                                                          92.6          409.7           23.8           16.0
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                                                   $3,980.8       $2,118.8       $1,036.5         $486.4
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Geographic profit(C)                                                    $1,172.4       $  404.8          $26.0         $ 54.2
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Interest income
Interest expense
Net corporate expenses
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income before provision
  for taxes on income, minority interests and
  cumulative effect of accounting changes
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Identifiable assets                                                     $2,280.5       $2,018.6       $1,008.3         $325.0
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<CAPTION>

                                                                         AFRICA/     CORPORATE/
                                                                          MIDDLE      FINANCIAL   ADJUSTMENTS/
(MILLIONS OF DOLLARS)                                                       EAST   SUBSIDIARIES   ELIMINATIONS   CONSOLIDATED
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                     <C>        <C>            <C>            <C>

1994
Net sales                                                                 $185.2       $     --       $     --      $ 8,281.3
Intercompany sales                                                           5.7             --         (684.3)            --
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                                                     $190.9       $     --        $(684.3)     $ 8,281.3
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Geographic profit                                                         $ 11.6       $     --        $ (44.7)     $ 2,089.1
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Interest income                                                                           123.0                         123.0
Interest expense                                                                         (126.9)                       (126.9)
Net corporate expenses                                                                   (223.7)                       (223.7)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income before provision for taxes on
  income and minority interests                                                                                     $ 1,861.5
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Identifiable assets                                                       $140.6       $4,555.7        $(578.2)     $11,098.5
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1993
Net sales                                                                 $179.5       $     --       $     --      $ 7,477.7
Intercompany sales                                                           3.8             --         (671.4)            --
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                                                     $183.3       $     --        $(671.4)     $ 7,477.7
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Geographic profit/(loss)(B)                                               $(28.6)      $     --        $ (88.6)     $ 1,037.9
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Interest income                                                                           163.5                         163.5
Interest expense                                                                         (106.5)                       (106.5)
Net corporate expenses                                                                   (243.5)                       (243.5)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income before provision for taxes on
  income and minority interests                                                                                     $   851.4
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Identifiable assets                                                       $128.9       $3,709.2        $(731.9)     $ 9,330.9
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1992
Net sales                                                                 $149.8       $     --        $    --      $ 7,230.2
Intercompany sales                                                            .7             --         (542.8)            --
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                                                     $150.5       $     --        $(542.8)     $ 7,230.2
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Geographic profit(C)                                                      $ 16.3       $     --        $ (40.0)     $ 1,633.7
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Interest income                                                                           184.6                         184.6
Interest expense                                                                         (103.4)                       (103.4)
Net corporate expenses                                                                   (180.1)                       (180.1)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income before provision
  for taxes on income, minority interests and
  cumulative effect of accounting changes                                                                           $ 1,534.8
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Identifiable assets                                                       $108.9       $4,303.5        $(454.7)     $ 9,590.1
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<FN>
(A)  THE COMPANY'S MANUFACTURING OPERATIONS IN PUERTO RICO ARE INCLUDED IN THE
     UNITED STATES FOR GEOGRAPHIC DATA PURPOSES.
(B)  INCLUDES PRE-TAX CHARGES OF $750 MILLION AND APPROXIMATELY $62 MILLION TO
     COVER A WORLDWIDE RESTRUCTURING PROGRAM AS WELL AS UNUSUAL ITEMS. IT ALSO
     INCLUDES A GAIN OF APPROXIMATELY $60 MILLION REALIZED ON THE SALE OF THE
     COMPANY'S REMAINING INTEREST IN MTI. AMOUNTS DIRECTLY ATTRIBUTABLE TO
     INDIVIDUAL GEOGRAPHIC AREAS HAVE BEEN ALLOCATED TO THEM. AMOUNTS NOT
     DIRECTLY TRACEABLE TO INDIVIDUAL GEOGRAPHIC AREAS ARE INCLUDED IN NET
     CORPORATE EXPENSES.
(C)  INCLUDES A $110.5 MILLION NET CREDIT RELATING TO THE DIVESTITURE AND
     RESTRUCTURING OF CERTAIN OF THE COMPANY'S BUSINESSES AND CURTAILMENT GAINS
     ASSOCIATED WITH POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS OTHER THAN PENSIONS OF DIVESTED
     OPERATIONS. AMOUNTS DIRECTLY ATTRIBUTABLE TO INDIVIDUAL GEOGRAPHIC AREAS
     HAVE BEEN ALLOCATED TO THEM. AMOUNTS NOT DIRECTLY TRACEABLE TO INDIVIDUAL
     GEOGRAPHIC AREAS ARE INCLUDED IN NET CORPORATE EXPENSES.

</TABLE>

SEE NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS WHICH ARE AN INTEGRAL PART OF
THESE STATEMENTS.


36
<PAGE>

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                                       YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(MILLIONS OF DOLLARS EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)                                                1994           1993           1992
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                                    <C>            <C>            <C>

Net sales                                                                              $8,281.3       $7,477.7       $7,230.2
Costs and expenses
   Cost of sales                                                                        1,918.6        1,772.0        2,024.3
   Selling, informational and administrative expenses                                   3,250.8        3,066.0        2,899.3
   Research and development expenses                                                    1,139.4          974.4          863.2
   Divestitures, restructuring and unusual items--net                                        --          752.0         (110.5)
   Other deductions--net                                                                  111.0           61.9           19.1
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income before provision for taxes on income, minority interests
   and cumulative effect of accounting changes                                          1,861.5          851.4        1,534.8
Provision for taxes on income                                                             558.5          191.3          438.6
Minority interests                                                                          4.6            2.6            2.7
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income before cumulative effect of accounting changes                                   1,298.4          657.5        1,093.5
Cumulative effect of change in accounting for:
   Postretirement benefits, net of income taxes                                              --             --         (312.6)
   Income taxes                                                                              --             --           30.0
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net income                                                                             $1,298.4         $657.5         $810.9
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Earnings per common share
   Income before cumulative effect of accounting changes                                  $4.19          $2.05          $3.25
   Cumulative effect of change in accounting for:
Postretirement benefits, net of income taxes                                                 --             --           (.93)
Income taxes                                                                                 --             --            .09
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Net income                                                                             $4.19          $2.05          $2.41

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>


SEE NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS WHICH ARE AN INTEGRAL PART OF
THESE STATEMENTS.


                                                                              37
<PAGE>

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                               COMMON STOCK         ADDITIONAL
                                                                          ---------------------        PAID-IN       RETAINED
(MILLIONS)                                                                SHARES      PAR VALUE        CAPITAL       EARNINGS
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                       <C>         <C>           <C>              <C>

Balance January 1, 1992                                                    332.4          $33.2         $212.5       $4,794.9
Net income                                                                                                              810.9
Cash dividends declared                                                                                                (486.5)
Debenture conversions                                                         .8             .1           10.9
Currency translation adjustment
Stock option transactions                                                    3.7             .4          142.1
Purchase of common stock
Shares purchased from Retirement Annuity Plan
Shares purchased from Savings and Investment Plan
Dividend reinvestment plan                                                    .1             --            9.4
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance December 31, 1992                                                  337.0           33.7          374.9        5,119.3
Net income                                                                                                              657.5
Cash dividends declared                                                                                                (536.1)
Currency translation adjustment
Stock option transactions                                                    1.4             .2           41.9
Purchase of common stock
Employee benefit trust transactions--net                                                                  63.2
Dividend reinvestment plan                                                    .2             --           11.7
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance December 31, 1993                                                  338.6           33.9          491.7        5,240.7
Net income                                                                                                            1,298.4
Cash dividends declared                                                                                                (594.6)
Currency translation adjustment
Stock option transactions                                                    1.5             .1           63.1
Purchase of common stock
Employee benefit trust transactions--net                                                                  83.4
Dividend reinvestment plan                                                    .2             --           11.8
Unrealized net gain on available-for-sale securities
Other                                                                                                      1.4
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance December 31, 1994                                                  340.3          $34.0         $651.4       $5,944.5
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<CAPTION>

                                                         CURRENCY
                                                      TRANSLATION       EMPLOYEE             TREASURY STOCK
                                                       ADJUSTMENT       BENEFITS         ---------------------
(MILLIONS)                                              AND OTHER          TRUST         SHARES           COST          TOTAL
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                   <C>               <C>              <C>           <C>           <C>

Balance January 1, 1992                                    $157.8        $    --           (2.8)       $(172.1)      $5,026.3
Net income                                                                                                              810.9
Cash dividends declared                                                                                                (486.5)
Debenture conversions                                                                                                    11.0
Currency translation adjustment                            (112.5)                                                     (112.5)
Stock option transactions                                                                   (.1)         (17.4)         125.1
Purchase of common stock                                                                   (8.5)        (632.2)        (632.2)
Shares purchased from Retirement Annuity Plan                                               (.4)         (30.0)         (30.0)
Shares purchased from Savings and Investment Plan                                            --           (2.9)          (2.9)
Dividend reinvestment plan                                                                                                9.4
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance December 31, 1992                                    45.3             --          (11.8)        (854.6)       4,718.6
Net income                                                                                                              657.5
Cash dividends declared                                                                                                (536.1)
Currency translation adjustment                             (13.6)                                                      (13.6)
Stock option transactions                                                                    --             .6           42.7
Purchase of common stock                                                                  (15.8)      (1,019.6)      (1,019.6)
Employee benefit trust transactions--net                                  (690.0)          10.0          631.1            4.3
Dividend reinvestment plan                                                                                               11.7
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance December 31, 1993                                    31.7         (690.0)         (17.6)      (1,242.5)       3,865.5
Net income                                                                                                            1,298.4
Cash dividends declared                                                                                                (594.6)
Currency translation adjustment                             162.3                                                       162.3
Stock option transactions                                                                    --            1.0           64.2
Purchase of common stock                                                                   (8.5)        (511.2)        (511.2)
Employee benefit trust transactions--net                                   (59.3)                                        24.1
Dividend reinvestment plan                                                                                               11.8
Unrealized net gain on available-for-sale securities          2.0                                                         2.0
Other                                                                                                                     1.4
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance December 31, 1994                                  $196.0        $(749.3)         (26.1)     $(1,752.7)      $4,323.9
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

</TABLE>


SEE NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS WHICH ARE AN INTEGRAL PART OF
THESE STATEMENTS.


38
<PAGE>

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                                                  DECEMBER 31
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(MILLIONS OF DOLLARS)                                                                      1994           1993           1992
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                                   <C>             <C>            <C>

ASSETS
CURRENT ASSETS
Cash and cash equivalents                                                             $ 1,458.5       $  729.4       $1,257.1
Short-term investments                                                                    560.1          447.1          446.6
Accounts receivable, less allowance for doubtful accounts:
   1994-$44.1; 1993-$40.6; 1992-$36.2                                                   1,665.0        1,468.7        1,400.3
Short-term loans                                                                          361.3          456.9          620.3
Inventories
   Finished goods                                                                         528.0          413.3          413.5
   Work in process                                                                        534.9          502.1          465.8
   Raw materials and supplies                                                             202.0          178.1          188.5
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Total inventories                                                                  1,264.9        1,093.5        1,067.8
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Prepaid expenses, taxes and other current assets                                          478.6          537.6          592.7
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Total current assets                                                               5,788.4        4,733.2        5,384.8
Long-term loans and marketable securities                                                 724.3          586.7          601.4
Property, plant and equipment, less accumulated depreciation                            3,073.2        2,632.5        2,305.1
Goodwill, less accumulated amortization                                                   325.7          231.1          368.2
Other assets, deferred taxes and deferred charges                                       1,186.9        1,147.4          930.6
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Total assets                                                                     $11,098.5       $9,330.9       $9,590.1
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Short-term borrowings, including current portion of long-term debt                    $ 2,220.0       $1,178.8       $1,252.3
Accounts payable                                                                          524.9          479.1          456.4
Income taxes payable                                                                      731.1          606.2          395.9
Accrued compensation and related items                                                    419.0          408.6          332.9
Other current liabilities                                                                 930.9          770.9          779.9
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Total current liabilities                                                          4,825.9        3,443.6        3,217.4
Long-term debt                                                                            604.2          570.5          571.3
Postretirement benefit obligation other than pension plans                                432.6          443.3          459.1
Deferred taxes on income                                                                  211.7          189.4          146.9
Other non-current liabilities                                                             661.4          779.3          441.9
Minority interests                                                                         38.8           39.3           34.9
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Total liabilities                                                                  6,774.6        5,465.4        4,871.5
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
Preferred stock, without par value; 12,000,000 shares authorized, none issued                --             --             --
Common stock, $.10 par value; 750,000,000 shares authorized;
   issued: 1994-340,330,816; 1993-338,564,752; 1992-336,972,295                            34.0           33.9           33.7
Additional paid-in capital                                                                651.4          491.7          374.9
Retained earnings                                                                       5,944.5        5,240.7        5,119.3
Currency translation adjustment and other                                                 196.0           31.7           45.3
Employee benefit trust                                                                   (749.3)        (690.0)            --
Common stock in treasury, at cost:
   1994-26,104,841; 1993-17,642,269; 1992-11,831,522                                   (1,752.7)      (1,242.5)        (854.6)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total shareholders' equity                                                          4,323.9        3,865.5        4,718.6
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total liabilities and shareholders' equity                                        $11,098.5       $9,330.9       $9,590.1
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>


SEE NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS WHICH ARE AN INTEGRAL PART OF
THESE STATEMENTS.


                                                                              39
<PAGE>

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                                                       YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(MILLIONS OF DOLLARS)                                                                      1994           1993           1992
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                                   <C>            <C>            <C>

OPERATING ACTIVITIES
   Net income                                                                         $ 1,298.4      $   657.5      $   810.9
   Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by
    operating activities:
     Cumulative effect of accounting changes                                                 --             --          282.6
     Depreciation and amortization of intangibles                                         292.0          258.2          263.9
     Divestitures, restructuring and unusual items                                           --          752.0         (110.5)
     Deferred taxes                                                                        32.6         (336.1)         (14.5)
     Deferred income amortization                                                         (11.4)         (28.3)         (74.3)
     Other                                                                                  5.5           39.3            5.0
     Changes in assets and liabilities, net of effect of businesses
      acquired and divested:
        Accounts receivable                                                              (160.7)        (160.8)        (193.8)
        Inventories                                                                      (110.8)        (142.3)        (116.1)
        Prepaid and other assets                                                          (11.5)         (44.8)        (246.3)
        Accounts payable and accrued liabilities                                          167.9           30.5           69.7
        Income taxes payable                                                              121.3          227.9           44.6
        Other deferred items                                                             (134.8)           9.9           85.8
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net cash provided by operating activities                                               1,488.5        1,263.0          807.0
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
INVESTING ACTIVITIES
   Purchases of property, plant and equipment                                            (671.5)        (634.2)        (674.2)
   Purchases of short-term investments                                                 (1,355.9)        (739.6)        (535.7)
   Proceeds from redemptions of short-term investments                                  1,244.8          846.8          459.8
   Proceeds from sales of businesses                                                         --          241.2          896.6
   Purchases of long-term investments                                                    (162.1)        (175.9)        (154.6)
   Purchases and redemptions of short-term investments by financial subsidiaries           43.4          (21.3)          51.0
   Decrease in loans and long-term investments by financial subsidiaries                   20.7          167.3          283.3
   Other investing activities                                                              40.3          118.8           63.7
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net cash (used in)/provided by investing activities                                      (840.3)        (196.9)         389.9
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
FINANCING ACTIVITIES
   Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt                                                39.8            6.4          266.0
   Increase/(decrease) in short-term debt                                               1,030.8          (70.1)        (407.7)
   Stock option transactions                                                               64.2           42.7          125.1
   Purchases of common stock                                                             (511.2)      (1,019.6)        (665.1)
   Cash dividends paid                                                                   (594.6)        (536.1)        (486.5)
   Other financing activities                                                              32.9            9.7          (59.8)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net cash provided by/(used in) financing activities                                        61.9       (1,567.0)      (1,228.0)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents                               19.0          (26.8)         (29.4)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents                                      729.1         (527.7)         (60.5)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year                                            729.4        1,257.1        1,317.6
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year                                              $ 1,458.5      $   729.4      $ 1,257.1
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

</TABLE>


SEE NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS WHICH ARE AN INTEGRAL PART OF
THESE STATEMENTS.


40
<PAGE>

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Pfizer Inc and all
significant subsidiaries. Material intercompany transactions are eliminated.

     The Company considers demand deposits, certificates of deposit and certain
time deposits with maturities of three months or less at the date of purchase to
be cash equivalents. Certain items which meet the definition of cash equivalents
but are part of a larger pool of investments are included in Short-term
investments.

     Inventories are valued at cost or market, whichever is lower. Except as
noted below, raw materials and supplies are valued at average or latest actual
costs and finished goods and work in process at average actual costs.
Substantially all of the Company's U.S. sourced pharmaceuticals, animal health
and food science inventories are valued utilizing the last-in, first-out (LIFO)
method.

     Property, plant and equipment are recorded at cost. Significant
improvements are capitalized. In general, the straight-line method of
depreciation is used for financial reporting purposes and accelerated methods
are used for U.S. and certain foreign tax reporting purposes.

     The assets and liabilities for most of the Company's international
subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars using current exchange rates with
resulting translation adjustments recorded in Shareholders' equity. Exchange
gains and losses on hedges of foreign net investments and on intercompany
balances of a long-term investment nature are also recorded in Shareholders'
equity. Income statement items are generally translated at average exchange
rates prevailing during the period. Other foreign currency transaction gains and
losses are included in net income. International subsidiaries and branches
operating in highly inflationary economies translate non-monetary assets at
historical rates, while net monetary assets are translated at current rates,
with the resulting translation adjustments included in net income.

     The accompanying consolidated financial statements generally do not include
a provision for U.S. income taxes on international subsidiaries' unremitted
earnings which, for the most part, are expected to be reinvested overseas. The
Company intends to remit a portion of future earnings. To the extent that the
parent company receives such foreign earnings as dividends, foreign taxes paid
on those earnings will generate tax credits which substantially offset the
related U.S. income taxes. The Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993 imposed
a limitation on the tax credit allowed to the Company for U.S. taxes on income
earned in  Puerto Rico for tax years beginning after December 31, 1993. As a
result, taxes have been provided to the extent required by this change in law.

     Goodwill and other intangibles are recorded at cost. Amounts arising from
acquisitions accounted for as purchases subsequent to 1970 are amortized over
various periods not exceeding 40 years. Amounts arising prior to that year are
not amortized unless there is a permanent diminution in value. Goodwill is shown
separately, while other intangibles are included in Other assets, deferred taxes
and deferred charges in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. When factors indicate
that goodwill and other intangibles be evaluated for possible impairment, the
Company assesses the recoverability from future operations using undiscounted
cash flows.

CONSOLIDATED INTERNATIONAL SUBSIDIARIES

Subsidiaries operating outside the U.S. generally are included in the
consolidated financial statements on a fiscal year basis ending November 30.
Substantially all the international subsidiaries' unremitted earnings are free
from legal or contractual restrictions. Additional information is shown on page
36.

     Net exchange losses, included in Other deductions (which totaled $127.1,
$153.5 and $134.9 million in 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively), were $1.5,
$40.0, and $22.8 million in 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively.

     Changes in the currency translation adjustment included in Shareholders'
equity are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


(MILLIONS OF DOLLARS)                                                                      1994           1993           1992
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                                      <C>             <C>          <C>

Currency translation adjustment January 1                                                $ 31.7          $45.3         $157.8
Translation adjustments and hedges                                                        161.8          (92.6)         (84.0)
Income taxes allocated to translation adjustments and hedges                                 .5             .9          (13.1)
Transfer to income statement on sale or liquidation of businesses                            --           78.1          (15.4)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Currency translation adjustment December 31                                              $194.0          $31.7         $ 45.3
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

</TABLE>

INVESTMENTS IN DEBT AND EQUITY SECURITIES

In 1994, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS)
No. 115, ACCOUNTING FOR CERTAIN INVESTMENTS IN DEBT AND EQUITY SECURITIES. The
statement requires that investments in such securities be designated as trading,
held-to-maturity or available-for-sale. Trading securities are reported at fair
value with unrealized gains and losses recognized in earnings.
Available-for-sale securities are reported at fair value with unrealized gains
and losses recognized in the caption "Currency translation adjustment and other"
included in Shareholders' equity. Securities classified as held-to-maturity are
reported at amortized cost.



                                                                              41
<PAGE>


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONTINUED)

As of December 31, 1994, the status of such securities is as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                           DECEMBER 31, 1994
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                           GROSS UNREALIZED
                         AMORTIZED           FAIR       ---------------------
(MILLIONS OF DOLLARS)         COST          VALUE       GAINS         LOSSES
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                         <C>         <C>            <C>              <C>
Held-to-Maturity:
  U.S. Government agencies  $ 28.2      $    28.2       $   --          $  --

  Municipals                  88.6           88.4           .1             (.3)

  Foreign governments         51.8           51.2           .1             (.7)

  Certificates of deposit    234.7          234.7           --             --

  Mortgage-backed             33.4           31.8           --            (1.6)

  Corporate debt             381.5          375.4           .3            (6.4)

  Commercial paper            91.0           91.0           --              --
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                             909.2          900.7           .5            (9.0)
Available for Sale:
  Equity securities           56.7           60.1         18.8           (15.4)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                            $965.9         $960.8        $19.3          $(24.4)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>


  Of the above securities, amounts are included in the Consolidated Balance
Sheet as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

(MILLIONS OF DOLLARS)                                                      1994
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                        <C>
Cash                                                                       $90.0

Short-term investments                                                     560.1

Long-term loans and marketable securities                                  319.2
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

  The contractual maturities of such securities as of December 31, 1994 are as
follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                 YEARS
                               -----------------------------------------
                                          OVER 1     OVER 5
(MILLIONS OF DOLLARS)           WITHIN 1    TO 5      TO 10     OVER 10   TOTAL
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                           <C>          <C>         <C>      <C>    <C>
Held-to-Maturity:
  U.S. Government agencies        $ 28.2   $   --      $ --      $ --   $  28.2

  Municipals                        78.6      10.0       --        --      88.6

  Foreign governments                 .7      51.1       --        --      51.8

  Certificates of deposit          220.7      14.0       --        --     234.7

  Corporate debt                   211.6     128.2      21.8      19.9    381.5

  Commercial paper                  91.0       --        --        --      91.0

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Subtotal                       $630.8    $203.3     $21.8     $19.9    875.8
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
  Mortgage-backed                                                          33.4
                                                                       --------
     Total                                                               $909.2
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

  Interest income was $123.0, $163.5 and $184.6 million for 1994, 1993 and
1992, respectively.

FINANCIAL SUBSIDIARIES

Combined financial data/segment information as of November 30, 1994, 1993
and 1992 applicable to the Company's financial subsidiaries, which include
Pfizer International Bank Europe (PIBE) and a small captive insurance company,
are presented as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

CONDENSED BALANCE SHEET

(MILLIONS OF DOLLARS)                   1994           1993           1992
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                  <C>             <C>         <C>
Cash and interest-bearing deposits   $  285.2        $ 222.2     $    63.7

Eurosecurities                            3.8            46.8         25.0

Loans, net                              766.4           794.1        960.4

Other assets                             13.2            10.3         15.3
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total assets                       $1,068.6        $1,073.4    $ 1,064.4
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Certificates of deposit and
  other liabilities                  $  184.5        $  166.5    $   171.5

Deferred income                          13.0            26.2         50.2

Shareholders' equity                    871.1           880.7        842.7
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total liabilities and
    shareholders' equity             $1,068.6        $1,073.4     $1,064.4
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

CONDENSED STATEMENT OF INCOME


(MILLIONS OF DOLLARS)                   1994           1993           1992
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Interest income                      $   49.2        $  48.1      $   91.3

Interest expense                         (4.6)          (4.2)         (5.5)

Other (expense)/income--net             (12.0)           1.2          (4.2)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Net income                         $   32.6        $  45.1      $   81.6
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>


  Investments of the banking subsidiary generally are recorded at amortized
cost and are held until maturity.

PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

The major categories of property, plant and equipment and accumulated
depreciation follow:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

(MILLIONS OF DOLLARS)                   1994           1993           1992
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                <C>             <C>            <C>
Land                               $    85.2       $    81.8       $   71.7

Buildings                            1,218.6         1,093.8          953.9

Machinery and equipment              2,108.4         1,897.8        1,706.9

Furniture, fixtures and other          940.2           812.8          698.3

Construction in progress               640.5           414.5          385.6
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                     4,992.9         4,300.7        3,816.4

Less: accumulated depreciation       1,919.7         1,668.2        1,511.3
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                   $ 3,073.2        $2,632.5       $2,305.1
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>



INVENTORIES

Inventories valued on a LIFO basis comprised approximately 15% of worldwide
inventories at December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992. The estimated replacement
cost of these inventories at December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992 was $220.3,
$204.7 and $199.0 million, respectively.

FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND CONCENTRATIONS OF CREDIT RISK

Changes in the value of the U.S. dollar and other currencies affect the
Company's financial position and results of operations since the Company has
manufacturing operations in 31 countries and sells its products on a worldwide
basis. Changes in interest rates affect the Company's financial position and
results of operations as a result of its investments

42
<PAGE>


and borrowings. The Company manages its foreign exchange and interest-rate risks
through a variety of techniques, including the use of derivative financial
instruments. The Company does not leverage or trade derivative financial
instruments.

     Generally, gains and losses arising from financial instruments used for
foreign exchange and interest-rate risk management are recognized in income
simultaneously with the net income effect of the related transactions generating
such risks.

     Forward-exchange contracts with maturities of six months or less are used
to match local market short-term assets and liabilities denominated in
currencies other than the local currency. Changes in the fair value of
forward-exchange contracts are included in Other deductions--net, together with
foreign exchange gains and losses. At December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992, the
Company had approximately $750, $420 and $380 million, respectively, of
forward-exchange contracts. The December 31, 1994 contracts include $383 million
of currencies exchanged for U.S. dollars, $132 million exchanged for U.K.
pounds, $92 million exchanged for Irish punt, $55 million exchanged for German
marks and $88 million for other currencies. The principal currencies exchanged
for U.S. dollars are Japanese yen, U.K. pounds, Irish punt, French francs and
German marks of $107, $61, $49, $34 and $29 million, respectively. The principal
currency exchanged for U.K. pounds is U.S. dollars of $129 million, exchanged
for Irish punt is U.K. pounds of $72 million and exchanged for German marks is
U.S. dollars of $52 million.

     Currency options purchased to hedge anticipated inventory purchases and
sales are reported at amortized cost. The cost is amortized to operations on a
straight-line basis through the inventory delivery date. Unrealized gains at
that date are deferred as a reduction of inventory cost and recognized in net
income as sales occur. At December 31, 1994 and 1993, $150 and $180 million of
yen-denominated currency options were purchased with maturities through 1996 and
1995, respectively, to hedge anticipated inventory purchases and sales.

     Interest-rate swap agreements are used to manage interest-rate risk on
assets and liabilities with the differential to be paid or received under the
agreements accrued over the lives of the contracts as interest rates change.
Such amounts are included in Other deductions--net.

     At December 31, 1994, the Company had interest-rate swap contracts
outstanding with notional amounts of approximately $275 million. Interest-rate
swap contracts of $25 million, maturing in 2001, have the effect of converting
fixed-rate long-term debt into a floating rate based on the Bankers Trust Tax
Exempt Note Rate. A contract of $50 million maturing shortly after year-end
converts certain fixed-rate assets of PIBE into floating rate based on the
London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR). Contracts of $200 million convert certain
floating-rate assets of PIBE to fixed-rate. The Company sold the right to
receive the fixed-rate payments under the swap contracts totaling $200 million
in order to reduce counterparty credit risk. Income on this transaction was
deferred and is being amortized over the life of the swap contracts, all of
which expire in 1995. Approximately  $13, $13 and $24 million of this deferred
income is included in Other current liabilities in the Consolidated Balance
Sheet at December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively.

     At December 31, 1994, the Company had currency swap contracts with notional
amounts of approximately $90 million outstanding, maturing in 1995 through 1997.
Such contracts effectively convert certain PIBE foreign currency assets into
floating rate (based on LIBOR) U.S. dollar denominated assets.

     The Company periodically reviews the credit quality of financial
institutions which are counterparties to derivative financial instruments and
does not expect any loss from the failure of such institutions to perform under
the contracts.

     At December 31, 1994, the Company had no significant concentrations of
credit risk related to financial instruments.

FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair values of
financial instruments:

     For cash, short-term interest-bearing deposits and investments, accounts
receivable and payable, accrued liabilities, commercial paper and certificates
of deposit, short-term debt and other liabilities, the carrying amount
approximates the fair value because of the short maturities of those
instruments. For loans, the carrying amount approximates the fair value because
of the short reset period.

     Quoted market prices or dealer quotes for the same or similar instruments
were used for certain long-term interest-bearing deposits and investments,
long-term debt, forward-exchange contracts and currency options.

     Interest-rate and currency swap agreements have been valued by using the
estimated amount that the Company would receive or pay to terminate the swap
agreements at the reporting date based on broker quotes, taking into account
current interest rates and the current creditworthiness of the swap
counterparties.

     The difference between the fair values and the carrying values of the
Company's long-term interest-bearing deposits and investments and long-term
debt, as well as each class of derivative financial instrument, is not material
and, therefore, such amounts are not presented herein.

LONG-TERM DEBT

Long-term debt, exclusive of current maturities of $6.5, $3.6 and $4.6 million
in 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively, is summarized as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


(MILLIONS OF DOLLARS)              1994                1993           1992
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                <C>                 <C>            <C>
7-1/8% Notes due 1996              $250.0              $250.0         $250.0

6-1/2% Notes due 1997               250.0               250.0          250.0

10-1/4% Industrial Development
  Bonds Due 2001                     22.0                22.0           22.0

7% Solid Waste Disposal Facilities
  Revenue Bonds Due 2025             18.0                  --             --

Other borrowings and mortgages       64.2                48.5           49.3
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                   $604.2              $570.5         $571.3
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

43
<PAGE>


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

     In 1991, the Company filed a shelf registration with the U.S. Securities
and Exchange Commission under which the Company could issue up to $750 million
of debt securities. Under this shelf registration, the Company issued an
aggregate of $500 million of notes, leaving $250 million available to be issued
as of December 31, 1994.

     Long-term debt maturities for the years ending December 31, 1996 through
1999, are $276.3, $260.8, $2.4 and $2.0 million, respectively.

     The weighted average interest rate on short-term and long-term debt
outstanding as of December 31, 1994 and 1993 was 6.0% and 5.1%, respectively.

     At December 31, 1994, the Company had approximately $1.1 billion in major
unused lines of credit.

     During 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively, the Company incurred interest
costs of $141.6, $120.5 and $115.6 million, including $14.7, $14.0 and $12.2
million which was capitalized. Interest paid was approximately $106.9, $122.2
and $92.5 million in 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively.

DIVESTITURES, RESTRUCTURING AND UNUSUAL ITEMS

Income before taxes for 1993 included a third-quarter charge of $750 million to
cover a worldwide restructuring program, as well as unusual items. Unusual items
included the write-down of goodwill of $121.7 million which related to a
business evaluation, where it was determined that revenue and profitability
levels were not meeting previously estimated levels and unamortized goodwill
would not be recovered through future cash flows of the business. An additional
1993 restructuring charge of $61.9 million was taken prior to the third quarter.
Restructuring actions for the program included the consolidation of
manufacturing facilities, the demolition of buildings resulting from the
consolidation, reconfiguration and rehabilitation of remaining facilities and
the consolidation of distribution and administrative infrastructures, including
the consolidation of finance organizations in Europe. It is expected that the
1993 program will be completed within three years.

     The following table indicates the status of the 1993 restructuring charges
by component:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                      1993      Utilization         Reserves at
                             Restructuring     -------------       December 31,
                                   charges     1993     1994               1994
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                         <C>              <C>      <C>          <C>
Employee severance
  payments                          $230.7   $  25.8  $  26.5          $178.4

Operating assets to
  be sold/disposed of                211.7      61.5     44.3           105.9

Closed facilities' costs             101.1       1.5     18.6            81.0

Currency translation adjustment
  related to the liquidation/
  disposal of businesses              57.8      57.8       --              --

Administrative infrastructures        37.6        .7     33.7             3.2

Lease and third-party contract
  termination costs                   37.0        .8     20.8            15.4

Other                                 14.3       1.2      9.0             4.1
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                    $690.2    $149.3   $152.9          $388.0
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>


     Closed facilities' costs relate primarily to the rationalization of
manufacturing capacity, as well as costs related to the demolition of structures
within certain manufacturing facilities. Administrative infrastructure costs
relate primarily to consulting costs involved in restructuring the
administrative support organizations and the distribution centers. Writedowns of
operating assets, which primarily involve manufacturing rationalizations, are
considered utilized and the reserve charged when the asset is sold or otherwise
disposed of by the Company.

     In 1993, the Company sold its remaining interest of approximately 40% in
Minerals Technologies Inc. (MTI), the Company's former specialty minerals
businesses. The sale resulted in a pre-tax gain of approximately $60 million.

     Income before taxes for 1992 included a net credit of $110.5 million
consisting of a $258.6 million gain on the sale of a business, offset by $204.6
million for restructuring, consolidation and streamlining of certain businesses.
In addition, curtailment gains ($56.5 million) associated with postretirement
benefits other than pensions of divested operations were recognized.

TAXES ON INCOME

Income before taxes for U.S. and international operations consists of the
following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


(MILLIONS OF DOLLARS)                        1994           1993           1992
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                          <C>            <C>          <C>
United States                                $1,074.0       $442.2       $856.4

International                                   787.5        409.2        678.4
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total income before taxes                    $1,861.5       $851.4     $1,534.8
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>


     The classification of items presented in the above table differs from that
in the geographic table on page 36. The geographic table displays information by
management organization, exclusive of certain corporate expenses. Income before
taxes in the above table is classified based on the location of the operations
of the Company.

     The provision for taxes on income consists of the following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

(MILLIONS OF DOLLARS)                        1994           1993           1992
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                         <C>            <C>         <C>
UNITED STATES

  Taxes currently payable

    U.S.                                    $ 243.5        $ 264.7      $ 176.2

    State and local                            14.4           65.6         88.8

  Deferred income taxes                        35.2         (273.4)       (16.8)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Tax provision                                 293.1           56.9        248.2
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
INTERNATIONAL

  Taxes currently payable                     268.0          197.1        188.1

  Deferred income taxes                        (2.6)         (62.7)         2.3
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Tax provision                                 265.4          134.4        190.4
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total provision for taxes on income         $ 558.5        $ 191.3      $ 438.6
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

</TABLE>


44

<PAGE>


     The provision for taxes on income shown in the previous table is classified
based on the location of the taxing authority, regardless of the location in
which the taxable income is generated. A provision for U.S. income taxes of
approximately $730 million has not been made on approximately $2.9 billion of
international subsidiaries' unremitted earnings as of December 31, 1994.

     The earnings of the Company's pharmaceutical subsidiary operating in Puerto
Rico are subject to taxes pursuant to an incentive grant effective through
December 31, 2002. Under this grant, the Company is partially exempt from
income, property and municipal taxes. The Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of
1993 imposed a limitation on the tax credit allowed to the Company for U.S.
taxes on income earned in Puerto Rico for tax years beginning after December 31,
1993. As a result, taxes have been provided to the extent required by this
change in law. The major elements contributing to the difference between the
U.S. statutory tax rate and the consolidated effective tax rate are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

(PERCENTAGES)                                1994            1993          1992
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                          <C>            <C>            <C>
U.S. statutory tax rate                      35.0            35.0          34.0

Effect of partially tax-exempt
  operations in Puerto Rico                  (9.9)          (19.4)         (8.2)

Effect of reduced rates in Ireland           (2.6)           (4.0)         (2.7)

Divestitures, restructuring
  and unusual items--net                       --             4.4           1.8

State and local taxes                         1.2             4.3           2.8

R&D tax credit                               (1.1)           (3.3)          (.5)

All other--net                                7.4             5.5           1.4
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Consolidated effective tax rate              30.0            22.5          28.6
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>


     Excluding the effect of divestitures, restructuring and unusual items--net,
the effect of partially tax-exempt operations in Puerto Rico and the effect of
reduced rates in Ireland would have been approximately (10.0%) and (2.1%) in
1993, respectively.

     Deferred tax assets and liabilities, netted by jurisdiction, as of December
31, 1994, 1993 and 1992 are included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as
follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

(MILLIONS OF DOLLARS)                        1994           1993           1992
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                        <C>            <C>           <C>
Current--Prepaid expenses, taxes
  and other current assets                 $ 373.8        $ 435.3       $ 347.3

Non-current--Other assets, deferred
  taxes and deferred charges                 336.2          305.1            --

Non-current--Deferred taxes
  on income                                 (211.7)        (189.4)       (146.9)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net deferred tax asset                     $ 498.3        $ 551.0       $ 200.4
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

</TABLE>


     Temporary differences which give rise to a significant portion of deferred
tax assets and liabilities at December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992 are as follows:


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

(MILLIONS
OF DOLLARS)              1994                1993                1992
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Deferred Tax         Deferred Tax        Deferred Tax
                    -----------------------------------------------------------
                   Assets  Liabilities  Assets  Liabilities  Assets  Liabilities

<S>               <C>      <C>          <C>     <C>          <C>     <C>
Prepaid/
  deferred items  $  157.8  $  150.1    $  149.4    $  85.8  $  115.8   $  76.5

Inventories          185.5      67.3       143.1       31.9     121.6      36.2

Investments            5.7        --        14.1         --      30.0        --

Property, plant
  and equipment       31.5     322.1        30.9       304.8     60.2     270.8

Employee benefits    207.4     127.7       206.8       129.1    208.8     132.8

Restructurings and
  special charge     280.3       --        377.9          --    180.3        --

Foreign tax credit
  carryforwards      165.1       --        100.0          --       --        --

State and local
  taxes               37.7       --         34.3          --     42.0        --

Other carry-
  forwards           117.1       --         59.0          --     40.4        --

All other             32.6      27.4        33.9         23.1    44.4      51.4
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Subtotal         1,220.7     694.6     1,149.4        574.7    843.5    567.7

Valuation
  allowance          (27.8)       --       (23.7)         --     (75.4)      --
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total deferred
  taxes           $1,192.9    $694.6    $1,125.7       $ 574.7  $768.1   $567.7
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net deferred
  tax asset       $  498.3              $  551.0                 $200.4
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>


     In 1994 and 1993, foreign tax credit carryforwards arose from dividends
received by the Company from foreign subsidiaries. These carryforwards expire
through 1999.

     A valuation allowance is provided when it is more likely that some portion
of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The major component of the
valuation allowance relates to the uncertainty of realizing certain foreign
deferred tax assets. The net decrease in the total valuation allowance for 1993
of $51.7 million was primarily due to a change in U.K. tax legislation. The net
decrease in the total valuation allowance for 1992 of $5.8 million was primarily
related to changes in foreign currency translation rates. The valuation
allowance at January 1, 1992, was $81.2 million.

     The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) is currently auditing the years 1987
through 1989. In October 1994, the Company received a Notice of Proposed
Adjustments from the IRS. The proposed adjustments relate primarily to the tax
accounting treatment of certain swaps and related transactions undertaken by the
Company in 1987 and 1988. These transactions resulted in the receipt of cash in
those years, which the Company duly reported as income for tax purposes. In

45
<PAGE>


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

1989 (in Notice 89-21), the IRS announced that it believed cash received in
certain swap transactions should be reported as income for tax purposes over the
life of the swaps, rather than when received. In the case of the Company, this
would cause some of the income to be reported in years subject to the Tax Reform
Act of 1986. The IRS proposed adjustment involves approximately $72 million in
federal taxes for the years 1987 through 1989, plus interest. If the proposed
adjustment is carried through to the maturity of the transactions in 1992, an
additional tax deficiency of approximately $86 million, plus interest, would
result. The Company disagrees with the proposed adjustment and continues to
believe that its tax accounting treatment for the transactions in question was
proper. While it is impossible to determine the final disposition, the Company
is of the opinion that the ultimate resolution of this matter should not have a
material adverse effect on the financial position or the results of operations
of the Company.

     The Company believes that its accrued tax liabilities are adequate for all
open years.

     The Company made income tax payments of approximately $414.1, $323.6 and
$319.9 million during 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively.

     The Company adopted SFAS No. 109 effective January 1, 1992. The cumulative
effect of this change increased net income by $30.0 million ($.09 per share) and
is reported separately in the 1992 Consolidated Statement of Income.

PENSION PLANS

The Company and its subsidiaries have pension plans covering substantially all
eligible employees on a contributory or non-contributory basis. The components
of net periodic pension cost for 1994, 1993 and 1992 are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


(MILLIONS OF DOLLARS)                   1994           1993           1992
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                     <C>            <C>            <C>
Service cost-benefits earned
  during the period                     $ 79.2         $  60.2        $ 56.7

Interest cost on projected
  benefit obligations                    115.8           107.5         110.8

Actual return on
  plan assets                            (32.8)         (197.4)        (97.7)

Net amortization and
  deferral                               (88.4)           71.4         (43.8)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net periodic pension cost               $ 73.8         $  41.7        $ 26.0
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>


     Assumptions used to measure the projected benefit obligations were:

                                        1994           1993           1992
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
U.S. PLANS

  Discount rate                         8.5%           7.5%           8.5%

  Rate of increase in salary levels     5.5%           5.5%           6.0%

  Expected long-term rate
    of return on plan assets            9.0%           9.0%           9.0%

INTERNATIONAL PLANS (WEIGHTED AVERAGE)

  Discount rate                         7.1%           6.7%           7.7%

  Rate of increase in salary levels     4.6%           4.4%           5.3%

  Expected long-term rate of
    return on plan assets               8.1%           8.5%           9.2%

     As a result of changes in long-term interest rates, the Company modified
its assumed discount rate for U.S. plans to 8.5% and 7.5% in 1994 and 1993,
respectively. The Company also reduced its rate of increase in salary levels
from 6.0% to 5.5% in 1993 because of lower inflation. The effect of these
changes resulted in a net decrease in projected benefit obligations of $117.2
million for 1994 and a net increase of $98.2 million for 1993.

     As of December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992, the funded status of the Company's
pension plans are as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>


(MILLIONS OF DOLLARS)                   1994           1993           1992
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                     <C>            <C>            <C>
Actuarial present value of
  accumulated benefit obligations:
  Vested                                $(1,312.0)     $(1,290.4)      $(969.7)

  Non-vested                               (133.3)         (99.8)       (156.3)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Total                               (1,445.3)      (1,390.2)     (1,126.0)

Effect of future salary increases          (258.9)        (204.4)       (224.5)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Projected benefit obligations            (1,704.2)      (1,594.6)     (1,350.5)

Plan assets at fair value                 1,773.6        1,774.9       1,662.1
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Plan assets in excess of projected
  benefit obligations                        69.4          180.3         311.6

Unrecognized overfunding at date
  of adoption                               (26.9)         (29.6)        (32.5)

Unrecognized net losses/(gains)             162.6          140.8         (20.5)

Unrecognized prior service costs            118.1           61.5          75.7

Minimum liability adjustment                (36.3)         (21.1)         (5.0)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net pension asset included in
  Consolidated Balance Sheet             $  286.9       $  331.9      $  329.3
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>


     The preceding table includes 1994 accumulated benefit obligations of $172.6
million and assets at fair value of $5.5 million primarily related to partially
funded international plans. The funding policy for the international plans
conforms to local governmental and tax requirements.

     Benefits under defined benefit plans generally are based on years of
service and employee career earnings. Participants become fully vested after as
few as five years of employment.

     The Company's funding policy for U.S. plans generally is to contribute
annually into trust funds at a rate intended to remain at a level percentage of
compensation for covered employees.

     The plans' assets are invested primarily in stocks, bonds and short-term
investments. At December 31, 1994, the major U.S. plan held approximately 2.0
million shares of the Company's common stock with a fair value of $152.6
million. Dividends of $3.7 million were paid on such shares in 1994.

46


<PAGE>

SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLANS

The Company maintains voluntary Savings and Investment Plans for most employees
in the U.S. and Puerto Rico. Within prescribed limits, the Company bases its
contributions to the plans on employee contributions. For 1994, 1993 and 1992,
Company contributions amounted to $29.8, $28.8 and $29.1 million, respectively.

POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS OTHER THAN PENSIONS

The Company has defined benefit postretirement plans that provide medical and
life insurance benefits for retirees and eligible dependents. Employees become
eligible for these benefits if they meet minimum age and service requirements
and are eligible for retirement benefits. The Company reserves the right to
modify or terminate these plans. The plans are not funded.

     In 1992, the Company adopted SFAS No. 106, EMPLOYERS' ACCOUNTING FOR
POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS OTHER THAN PENSIONS.  This statement requires the
accrual of the projected future cost of providing postretirement benefits during
the period that employees render the services necessary to be eligible for such
benefits. In prior years, the expense was recognized when claims were paid
(pay-as-you-go basis). Most retirees outside the United States are covered by
government-sponsored and -administered programs. The cost is not significant.

     The Company elected to immediately recognize the accumulated benefit
obligation measured as of January 1, 1992 and reflected a pre-tax charge of
$520.5 million ($312.6 million after taxes) as the cumulative effect of this
accounting change.

     The initial accumulated postretirement benefit obligation was subsequently
reduced as a result of curtailment gains of $56.5 million related to 1992
divestitures. Plan modifications adopted in 1992 further reduced the obligation,
with this reduction being amortized as a component of the net periodic
postretirement expense.

     The components of the 1994, 1993 and 1992 expense were as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

(MILLIONS OF DOLLARS)                              1994      1993      1992
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                              <C>       <C>       <C>

Service cost--benefits earned
  during the period                              $  5.8    $  5.0    $  9.8
Interest cost on the accumulated
  obligation                                       21.7      20.2      25.8
Net amortization and deferral                     (24.2)    (24.4)    (19.9)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net periodic postretirement expense              $  3.3    $   .8    $ 15.7
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

</TABLE>

     The accumulated postretirement benefit obligation recognized in the
December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992 Consolidated Balance Sheets, consist of:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

(MILLIONS OF DOLLARS)                              1994      1993      1992
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                              <C>       <C>       <C>

Retirees                                         $192.1    $178.7    $164.5
Fully eligible active plan participants            35.1      47.1      41.6
Other active plan participants                     52.7      57.0      46.9
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Accumulated postretirement benefit obligation     279.9     282.8     253.0
Unrecognized prior service cost                   157.2     181.6     206.1
Unrecognized net loss                              (4.5)    (21.1)       --
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Recorded obligation                              $432.6    $443.3    $459.1
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

     An average increase of 12% in the cost of covered health care benefits was
assumed for 1995 and is projected to decrease to 6.2% after 16 years and to then
remain at that level. A 1% increase in the health care cost trend rate would
have increased the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation as of December
31, 1994 by $16.8 million and the total of service and interest cost by $1.5
million. The discount rates used to estimate the accumulated postretirement
benefit obligation were 8.5%, 7.5% and 8.5% at December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992,
respectively.

POSTEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS

The Company adopted SFAS No. 112, EMPLOYERS' ACCOUNTING FOR POSTEMPLOYMENT
BENEFITS effective January 1, 1994. This statement pertains to benefits provided
to former or inactive employees after employment but before retirement. Because
the Company's past accounting practices were in compliance with this statement,
no cumulative effect adjustment was required.

EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE

Earnings per common share are computed by dividing net income by the weighted
average number of common shares and common share equivalents outstanding. The
latter consists of shares issuable upon exercise of stock options. The
information necessary for the calculation of earnings per common share for the
years ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992, is as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

(MILLIONS OF DOLLARS AND SHARES,
EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)                          1994      1993      1992
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                            <C>         <C>       <C>

Net income, adjusted                           $1,298.4    $657.5    $811.1
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Weighted average number of
  common shares outstanding                       305.8     315.5     329.0
Common share equivalents                            4.4       4.9       7.5
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Total                                             310.2     320.4     336.5
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Earnings per common share                         $4.19     $2.05     $2.41
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

</TABLE>

COMMON STOCK

In December 1994, the Company announced that it plans to purchase up to 2.25
million shares of its common stock in the open market to be used for the
acquisition of NAMIC U.S.A. Corporation (NAMIC). Under this plan, approximately
1.0 million shares were purchased in 1994.

In February 1993, the Company announced a program to purchase up to 20
million shares of its currently issued common stock in the open market or
in privately negotiated transactions. This program was completed during the
third quarter of 1994. These shares are available for use in the Company's
employee benefit plans and for general corporate purposes.



                                                                              47
<PAGE>

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

PREFERRED STOCK PURCHASE RIGHTS

In 1987, the Board of Directors declared a dividend of one Preferred Stock
Purchase Right on each outstanding share of Pfizer Common Stock to holders of
record on October 5, 1987.

     If the rights become exercisable, separate certificates evidencing the
rights will be distributed and each right will entitle the holder to purchase
from the Company a new series of preferred stock at a predefined price. The
rights also contain an option to purchase shares in a change-of-control
situation. The preferred stock, in addition to a preferred dividend and
liquidation right, will entitle the holder to vote, on a pro rata basis, with
the Company's common stock. The rights are not exercisable until either certain
changes in ownership of the Company occur or an announcement of a tender offer
for at least 30% of the Company's common stock is made.

     The rights are redeemable by Pfizer at a fixed price until 10 days, or
longer as determined by the Board, after certain defined events, or at any time
prior to the expiration of the rights on October 5, 1997, if such events do not
occur.

     Through December 31, 1994, the Company had reserved 1.9 million preferred
shares as issuable pursuant to these rights. At the present time, the rights
have no dilutive effect on the earnings per common share calculation.

EMPLOYEE BENEFIT TRUST

In 1993, the Company sold 10 million shares of treasury stock to the Pfizer Inc.
Grantor Trust (the Trust). The Trust will be used primarily to fund future
obligations for previously approved Company benefit plans over its 15-year term.
Common stock was acquired by the Trust from the Company in exchange for a
promissory note valued at approximately $600 million at the date of sale. The
amount, representing unearned employee benefits, is recorded as a deduction from
shareholders' equity and is reduced as employee benefits are satisfied.

     In 1994, .3 million shares were released from the Trust to satisfy employee
stock options exercised and the Company's obligation under other employee
benefit plans. Compensation costs related to the other employee benefit plans
are recorded at fair market value at the date the shares are released.

STOCK OPTION PLANS AND PERFORMANCE AWARDS

Under the Stock and Incentive Plan, the Company may grant options to any
employee, including officers, to purchase common stock at the market price on
the date an option is granted. The options may be exercised subject to continued
employment and certain other conditions. At December 31, 1994, options for
15,046,075 shares were exercisable. The Plan also provides for stock
appreciation rights, stock awards or performance unit awards.

     In 1994, under the terms of the Stock and Incentive Plan, restricted stock
awards were made to several key employees. Restrictions generally expire over a
three-year period from the date of grant. Under the award, 20,609 shares were
outstanding at December 31, 1994.

     In 1993, the shareholders approved amendments to the Plan for an additional
11 million shares to be made available for future grants of options. The
following table summarizes information relative to the Plan:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

(SHARES)                                 1994           1993           1992
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                <C>            <C>            <C>

Under option January 1             19,294,317     17,860,189     16,961,631

Granted (per share:
  $56.25 to $69.75 in 1994;
  $63.00 in 1993;
  $69.50 to $81.00 in 1992)         4,959,018      3,214,059      5,064,322

Exercised (per share:
  $18.25 to $65.25 in 1994;
  $14.00 to $65.25 in 1993;
  $14.00 to $65.25 in 1992)        (1,781,025)    (1,452,160)    (3,750,610)

Cancelled--available for
  future grants                      (348,776)      (305,774)      (415,154)

Cancelled--not available for
  future grants                       (20,055)       (21,997)            --
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Under option December 31
  (per share:
  $24.25 to $81.00 in 1994;
  $18.25 to $81.00 in 1993;
  $17.50 to $81.00 in 1992)        22,103,479     19,294,317     17,860,189
---------------------------------------------------------------------------
Available for grant
  December 31                       4,892,581      9,502,823      1,411,108
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

</TABLE>

     The Performance-Contingent Share Award Program (the Program), established
in 1993, provides executives and other key employees with the right to earn
awards payable in shares of the Company's common stock. The actual payout of
shares is determined using two performance criteria measuring the Company's
performance relative to a determined industry peer group. The Program provides
for up to 10 million shares to be awarded. At December 31, 1994, executives and
other key employees had the right to earn up to 563,670 shares, although no
shares have yet been issued. Actual issuances of shares can only occur when the
performance period is completed and the criteria measured. Compensation cost to
date related to the Program aggregated $7.5 million.

LEASE COMMITMENTS

Rent expense, net of sublease rentals, for the years ended December 31, 1994,
1993 and 1992 amounted to approximately $94.4, $87.2 and $80.1 million,
respectively. Total future minimum rental commitments under all non-cancellable
leases for the years 1995 through 1999 and thereafter are approximately $26.4,
$20.8, $17.0, $9.9, $12.1 and $188.2 million, respectively.

     Under the more significant lease agreements, the Company must either pay
directly for taxes, insurance, maintenance and other operating expenses or pay
higher rentals when such expenses increase.


48

<PAGE>

ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES

ACQUISITIONS

In 1994, the Company acquired:

-    Certain assets of Flavor Technology Inc., a specialty flavors business, for
approximately $32 million.

-    Restiva Italiana S.p.A. for approximately $26 million. Restiva produces and
sells a wide range of innovative products for health and skin care.

-    Rovi Farma, S.A., in Spain, for approximately $24 million. Rovi is a
distributor and producer of a variety of over-the-counter products.

     In 1993, the Company purchased Charwell Pharmaceuticals Limited, a
distributor of over-the-counter consumer health care products located in the
United Kingdom, for approximately $41.5 million.

     In 1992, the Company acquired certain assets and liabilities of Koshin
Medical Corp., a Japanese distributor of hospital products, for approximately
$16.4 million.

     The above acquisitions were recorded under the purchase method of
accounting.

DIVESTITURES

In 1993, the Company sold its remaining interest of approximately 40% in MTI,
through a public offering and a sale of stock to MTI for gross proceeds of
approximately $241.2 million. The sale resulted in a pre-tax gain of
approximately $60 million.

In 1992, the Company:

-    Sold the Coty business, a part of the Company's consumer health care
segment, for gross proceeds of approximately $440 million, resulting in a
pre-tax gain of $258.6 million.

-    Closed the transaction to sell certain product lines of Shiley Incorporated
and other assets to Sorin Biomedica S.p.A. for approximately $230 million in
cash. The gain on this transaction was used to partly offset costs associated
with the Bowling Settlement Agreement. See the "Litigation" footnote beginning
on this page.

-    Sold a majority interest of approximately 60% in MTI. The net proceeds of
$226.6 million approximated the net book value of the interest sold.

INSURANCE

The Company maintains insurance coverage it believes to be adequate for its
needs. Under its insurance contracts, the Company usually accepts self-insured
retentions appropriate for the specific risks of its business.

LITIGATION

The Company is involved in a number of claims and litigations, including product
liability claims and litigations considered normal in the nature of its
businesses. These include suits involving various pharmaceutical and hospital
products that allege either reaction to or injury from use of the product.

     As previously disclosed, numerous claims have been brought against the
Company and Shiley Incorporated, a wholly owned subsidiary, alleging either
personal injury from fracture of 60 DEG. or 70 DEG. Shiley Convexo-Concave (C/C)
heart valves, or anxiety that properly functioning implanted valves might
fracture in the future or, in a few cases, personal injury from a prophylactic
replacement of a functioning valve.

     In an attempt to resolve all claims alleging anxiety that properly
functioning valves might fracture in the future, the Company entered into a
settlement agreement in January 1992 in Bowling v. Shiley et al., a case brought
in the United States District Court for the Southern District of Ohio that
establishes a worldwide settlement class of people with C/C heart valves and
their spouses, except those who elect to exclude themselves. The settlement
provides for a Consultation Fund of $90 to $140 million (depending on the number
of claims filed) from which valve recipients who make claims will receive
payments that are intended to cover their cost of consultation with
cardiologists or other health care providers with respect to their valves. The
settlement agreement establishes a second fund of at least $75 million to
support C/C valve-related research, including the development of techniques to
identify valve recipients who may have significant risk of fracture, and to
cover the unreimbursed medical expenses that valve recipients may incur for
certain procedures related to the valves. The Company's obligation as to
coverage of these unreimbursed medical expenses is not subject to any dollar
limitation. Following a hearing on the fairness of the settlement, it was
approved by the court on August 19, 1992. An appeal of the court's approval of
the settlement was dismissed on December 20, 1993 by the United States Court of
Appeals for the Sixth Circuit. A motion for rehearing EN BANC was denied on
March 8, 1994, and the U.S. Supreme Court denied a writ of certiorari on October
4, 1994. It is expected that most of the costs arising from the Bowling class
settlement will be covered by insurance and the proceeds of the sale of certain
product lines of the Shiley businesses in 1992. Of approximately 900 implantees
(and spouses of some of them) who opted out of the Bowling settlement class,
eight have cases pending; approximately 792 have been resolved; and
approximately 100 have never filed a case or claim.

     Several claims relating to elective reoperations of valve recipients are
currently pending. Some of these claims relate to elective reoperations covered
by the Bowling class settlement described above, and, therefore, the claimants
are entitled to certain benefits in accordance with the settlement. Such
claimants, if they irrevocably waive all of the benefits of the settlement, may
pursue separate litigation to recover damages in spite of the class settlement.
The Company is defending these claims.


                                                                              49
<PAGE>

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

     Generally, the plaintiffs in all of the pending heart valve litigations
discussed above seek money damages. Based on the experience of the Company in
defending these claims to date, including available insurance and reserves, the
Company is of the opinion that these actions should not have a material adverse
effect on the financial position or the results of operations of the Company.

     On September 30, 1993, Dairyland Insurance Co., a carrier providing excess
liability coverage ("excess carrier") in the early 1980s, commenced an action in
the California Superior Court in Orange County, seeking a declaratory judgment
that it was not obligated to provide insurance coverage for Shiley heart valve
liability claims. On October 8, 1993, Pfizer filed cross-complaints against
Dairyland and filed third-party complaints against 73 other excess carriers who
sold excess liability policies covering periods from 1978 to 1985, seeking
damages and declaratory judgments that they are obligated to pay for defense and
indemnity to the extent not paid by other carriers.

     The Company's operations are subject to federal, state and local
environmental laws and regulations. Under the Comprehensive Environmental
Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980, as amended ("CERCLA" or
"Superfund"), the Company has been designated as a potentially responsible party
by the United States Environmental Protection Agency with respect to certain
waste sites with which the Company may have had direct or indirect involvement.
Similar designations have been made by some state environmental agencies under
applicable state superfund laws. Such designations are made regardless of the
extent of the Company's involvement. There are also claims that the Company is a
potentially responsible party or participant with respect to several waste sites
in Canada. Such claims have been made by the filing of a complaint, the issuance
of an administrative directive or order, or the issuance of a notice or demand
letter. These claims are in various stages of administrative or judicial
proceedings. They include demands for recovery of past governmental costs and
for future investigative or remedial actions. In many cases, the dollar amount
of the claim is not specified. In most cases, claims have been asserted against
a number of other entities for the same recovery or other relief as was asserted
against the Company. The Company is currently participating in remedial action
at a number of sites under federal, state and local laws.

     To the extent possible with the limited amount of information available at
this time, the Company has evaluated its responsibility for costs and related
liability with respect to the above sites and is of the opinion that the
Company's liability with respect to these sites should not have a material
adverse effect on the financial position or the results of operations of the
Company. In arriving at this conclusion, the Company has considered, among other
things, the payments that have been made with respect to the sites in the past;
the factors, such as volume and relative toxicity, ordinarily applied to
allocate defense and remedial costs at such sites; the probable costs to be paid
by the other potentially responsible parties; total projected remedial costs for
a site, if known; existing technology; and the currently enacted laws and
regulations. The Company anticipates that a portion of these costs and related
liability will be covered by available insurance.

     Through the early 1970s, Pfizer (Minerals Division) and Quigley Company,
Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary, sold a minimal amount of one construction
product and several refractory products containing some asbestos. These sales
were discontinued thereafter. Although these sales represented a minor market
share, the Company has been named as one of a number of defendants in numerous
lawsuits. These actions, and actions related to the Company's sale of talc
products in the past, claim personal injury resulting from exposure to
asbestos-containing products, and nearly all seek general and punitive damages.
In these actions, the Company or Quigley is typically one of a number of
defendants, and both are members of the Center for Claims Resolution (the
"CCR"), a joint defense organization that is defending these claims. The Company
and Quigley are responsible for varying percentages of defense and liability
payments for all members of the CCR. Prior to September 1990, the cases
involving talc products were defended by the CCR, but the Company is now
overseeing its own defense of these actions. A number of cases alleging property
damage from asbestos-containing products installed in buildings have also been
brought against Pfizer.

     On January 15, 1993, a class action complaint and settlement agreement were
filed in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of
Pennsylvania involving all personal injury claims by persons who have been
exposed to asbestos-containing products, but who have not yet filed a personal
injury action against the 20 members of the CCR. The settlement agreement
establishes a claims-processing mechanism that will provide historic settlement
values upon proof of impaired medical condition as well as claims-processing
rates over 10 years. In addition, the shares allocated to the CCR members
eliminate joint and several liability. The court has determined that the
settlement is fair and reasonable. Subsequently, the court entered an injunction
enforcing its determination. An appeal from that injunction is pending in the
United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit.

     Concurrently with the filing of the future claims class action, the CCR
settled approximately 16,360 personal injury cases on behalf of Pfizer and
Quigley. It is the CCR's intention to settle remaining and opt-out cases and
claims on a similar basis to past settlements. The total pending number of cases
as of December 31, 1994 is 14,543 asbestos cases against Quigley, 5,643 asbestos
cases against Pfizer Inc. and 147 talc cases against Pfizer Inc.

     Costs incurred by the Company in defending the asbestos personal injury
claims and the property damage claims, as well as settlements and damage awards
in connection therewith, are


50

<PAGE>

largely insured against under policies issued by several primary insurance
carriers and a number of excess carriers. The Company believes that its costs
incurred in defending and ultimately disposing of the asbestos personal injury
claims, as well as the property damage claims, will be largely covered by
insurance policies issued by carriers that have agreed to provide coverage,
subject to deductibles, exclusions, retentions and policy limits. In connection
with the future claims settlement, the defendants have commenced a third-party
action against their respective excess insurance carriers that have not agreed
to provide coverage seeking a declaratory judgment that (a) the future claims
settlement is fair and reasonable as to the carriers; (b) the carriers had
adequate notice of the future claims class settlement; and (c) the carriers are
obligated to provide coverage for asbestos personal injury claims. Based on the
Company's experience in defending the claims to date and the amount of insurance
coverage available, the Company is of the opinion that the actions should not
ultimately have a material adverse effect on the financial position or the
results of operations of the Company.

     In connection with the divestiture of Minerals Technologies Inc. (MTI), to
which the net assets of the Pfizer Minerals and the Quigley businesses were
transferred, Pfizer and Quigley agreed to indemnify MTI against any liability
with respect to products manufactured and sold prior to October 30, 1992, as
well as against liability for certain environmental matters.

     The Company has been named, together with numerous other manufacturers of
brand name prescription drugs and certain companies that distribute brand name
prescription drugs, in suits brought by retail pharmacy companies in federal and
state courts. The federal cases consist principally of a class action by retail
pharmacies (including approximately 30 named plaintiffs), as well as additional
actions by approximately 1,900 individual retail pharmacies (the "individual
actions"). These cases, all of which have been or are in the process of being
transferred to the United States District Court for the Northern District of
Illinois and coordinated for pretrial purposes, allege that the defendant drug
manufacturers have violated the Sherman Act in that they have unlawfully agreed
with each other (and, as alleged in some cases, with wholesalers) not to extend
to retail pharmacy companies the same discounts allegedly extended to managed
care companies, mail order pharmacies and certain other institutional
purchasers. In addition, the individual actions also allege violations of the
Robinson-Patman Act in that the manufacturers allegedly have unlawfully
discriminated against retail pharmacy companies by not extending them such
discounts.

     The federal court has certified a class consisting of all persons or
entities who, since October 15, 1989, bought prescription brand name drugs from
any manufacturer or wholesaler defendant, but specifically excluding government
entities, mail order pharmacies, HMOs, hospitals, clinics and nursing homes. The
federal court had denied a motion for certification made by a purported class of
Alabama consumers (in a case that was originally filed in state court, then
removed to federal court). In the state cases, motions for class certification
are anticipated, except in one Alabama action still in state court, where
plaintiffs have stated that they intend to amend their complaint to withdraw
their class allegations.

     The Company believes that these cases are without merit and is vigorously
defending them.

     Food and Drug Administration (FDA) administrative proceedings relating to
Plax are pending, principally an industry-wide call for data on all anti-plaque
products by the FDA. The call for data notice specified that products that have
been marketed for a material time and to a material extent may remain on the
market pending FDA review of the data, provided the manufacturer has a good
faith belief that the product is generally recognized as safe and effective and
is not misbranded. The Company believes that Plax satisfied these requirements
and prepared a response to the FDA's request, which was filed on June 17, 1991.
This filing, as well as the filings of other manufacturers, is still under
review and is currently being considered by an FDA Advisory Committee.

     A consolidated class action on behalf of persons who allegedly purchased
Pfizer common stock during the March 24, 1989 through February 26, 1990 period
is pending in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New
York. This lawsuit, which commenced on July 13, 1990, alleges that the Company
and certain officers and former directors and officers violated federal
securities law by failing to disclose potential liability arising out of
personal injury suits involving Shiley heart valves and seeks damages in an
unspecified amount. The defendants in this action believe that the suit is
without merit and are vigorously defending it. A derivative action commenced on
April 2, 1990 against certain directors and officers and former directors and
officers alleging breaches of fiduciary duty and other common law violations in
connection with the manufacture and distribution of Shiley heart valves is
pending in the Superior Court, Orange County, California. The complaint seeks,
among other forms of relief, damages in an unspecified amount. The defendants in
the action believe that the suit is without merit and are vigorously defending
it.


                                                                              51

<PAGE>

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

     On January 28, 1993, a purported class action entitled Kearse v. Pfizer
Inc. and Howmedica Inc. was commenced in the United States District Court for
the Northern District of Ohio. Howmedica Inc. ("Howmedica") is a wholly owned
subsidiary of the Company. The action sought monetary and injunctive relief,
including medical monitoring, on behalf of patients implanted with the Howmedica
P.C.A. one-piece acetabular hip component, which was manufactured by Howmedica
from 1983 to 1990. The complaint alleged that the prostheses were defectively
designed and manufactured and posed undisclosed risks to implantees. On August
3, 1993, a virtually identical purported class action, Bradshaw/Davids v. Pfizer
Inc. and Howmedica Inc., was brought and the Kearse case was subsequently
voluntarily dismissed. The district court has denied the plaintiffs' motion to
certify the case as a class action. The Company believes that the suit is
without merit and is vigorously defending it.

     During 1994, seven purported class actions were filed against American
Medical Systems ("AMS") in federal courts in South Carolina (later transferred
to Minnesota), California, Minnesota (2), Indiana, Ohio and Louisiana. In
January 1995, an additional purported class action was filed in state court in
Louisiana, replicating the federal suit. The California and Indiana suits and
one Minnesota suit also name Pfizer Inc. as a defendant, based on its ownership
of AMS. The suits seek monetary and injunctive relief on the basis of
allegations that implantable penile prostheses are prone to unreasonably high
rates of mechanical failure and/or various autoimmune diseases as a result of
silicone materials. On September 30, 1994, the federal Judicial Panel on
Multidistrict Litigation denied the various plaintiffs' motions to consolidate
or coordinate the cases for pretrial proceedings. On February 28, 1995, the
Court in the Ohio suit conditionally granted plaintiffs' motion for class
certification, and on March 3, 1995, the Court in the California suit denied
plaintiffs' motion for class certification. The Company believes the suits are
without merit and is vigorously defending them.

SUBSEQUENT EVENTS

On January 19, 1995, the Company acquired SmithKline Beecham's animal health
business for approximately $1.45 billion substantially financed by the issuance
of commercial paper. The Company expects to acquire NAMIC in a stock-for-stock
transaction valued at approximately $175 million, in the first quarter of 1995.

     Both of these acquisitions will be accounted for as purchase transactions,
with goodwill generated to be amortized on a straight-line basis over a period
not exceeding 40 years.

SEGMENT INFORMATION AND GEOGRAPHIC DATA

Segment information (including major product groups) and geographic data for the
years ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992 are shown on pages 35 and 36 and in
the footnote "Financial Subsidiaries" on page 42 and are incorporated in this
footnote.

     Net sales represent merchandise shipments to third parties. Expenses were
deducted from net sales to arrive at segment profit. Those expenses directly
traceable to individual segments were charged to them. Other expenses were
allocated to the segments on a reasonable basis. Interest income, interest
expense and net corporate expenses were not allocated to individual segments and
include those amounts that relate to the operations of the financial
subsidiaries.

     In many instances, various segments use common production facilities which
require allocation among segments of property, plant and equipment, as well as
capital additions and depreciation. Physical production is the principal method
used for the allocation. Each segment is then considered the owner of its own
assets as well as its allocated facilities. Corporate assets consist principally
of cash, short-term investments and long-term marketable securities.

     Products are transferred between geographic areas for additional
     processing, as well as for ultimate sale, on a basis intended to
     recognize economic and competitive circumstances in the market of end
     use. The assets physically located in one area are considered assets of
     that area even though they provide goods and/or services to other areas.

     The Company's segments consist of four product lines and a financial
subsidiaries group:

     Health care: a broad line of pharmaceutical products (including
cardiovascular agents, anti-infectives, central nervous system agents,
anti-inflammatories and antidiabetes agents) as well as hospital products
(including bone and joint prostheses, diagnostic and therapeutic products used
in the treatment of cardiovascular disease, electrosurgical and ultrasonic
surgical devices and implantable urological devices).

     Animal health: animal health products, antibiotic and vitamin feed
supplements and veterinary items.

     Consumer health care: over-the-counter health care items and oral care
products.

     Food science: specialty food ingredients and innovative technology for the
global food processing industry.

     Financial subsidiaries: a banking operation that makes loans and accepts
deposits in international markets and an insurance operation that reinsures
certain assets, inland transport and marine cargo of the Company's subsidiaries.


52

<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

QUARTERLY CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME (UNAUDITED)

                                                                                         QUARTERS
                                                                        --------------------------------------
(MILLIONS OF DOLLARS EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)                                FIRST    SECOND     THIRD    FOURTH      YEAR
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                     <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>
1994
Net sales                                                               $1,982.9  $1,923.3  $2,074.9  $2,300.2  $8,281.3
Costs and expenses
  Cost of sales                                                            432.2     464.1     476.0     546.3   1,918.6
  Selling, informational and administrative expenses                       730.5     800.0     796.6     923.7   3,250.8
  Research and development expenses                                        254.7     262.0     295.4     327.3   1,139.4
  Other deductions--net                                                     35.5      27.4      24.1      24.0     111.0
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income before provision for taxes on income and minority interests         530.0     369.8     482.8     478.9   1,861.5
Provision for taxes on income                                              159.0     110.9     144.9     143.7     558.5
Minority interests                                                            .3       1.7       1.4       1.2       4.6
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net income                                                                $370.7    $257.2    $336.5    $334.0  $1,298.4
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Earnings per common share                                                  $1.18      $.84     $1.09     $1.08     $4.19
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cash dividends paid per common share                                        $.47      $.47      $.47      $.47     $1.88
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Stock prices*
  High                                                                   $69-7/8   $64-3/4   $70-1/2   $79-3/8
  Low                                                                    $53-1/8   $53-1/4   $59-1/8   $68
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1993
Net sales                                                               $1,867.3  $1,748.7  $1,872.5  $1,989.2  $7,477.7
Costs and expenses
  Cost of sales                                                            423.4     437.1     436.4     475.1   1,772.0
  Selling, informational and administrative expenses                       740.7     757.9     745.3     822.1   3,066.0
  Research and development expenses                                        215.4     230.8     242.6     285.6     974.4
  Divestitures, restructuring and unusual items--net                        28.8     (26.8)    750.0        --     752.0
  Other deductions--net                                                     14.7       5.8      26.5      14.9      61.9
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income/(loss) before provision for taxes on income
  and minority interests                                                   444.3     343.9    (328.3)    391.5     851.4
Provision for/(benefit from) taxes on income                               115.5      89.6    (115.5)    101.7     191.3
Minority interests                                                           (.2)       .5       1.4        .9       2.6
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net income/(loss)                                                         $329.0    $253.8   $(214.2)   $288.9    $657.5
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Earnings/(loss) per common share                                           $1.01      $.79     $(.65)     $.90     $2.05
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cash dividends paid per common share                                        $.42      $.42      $.42      $.42     $1.68
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Stock prices*
  High                                                                   $72-3/4   $75-5/8   $66-1/4   $70-3/8
  Low                                                                    $52-1/2   $57-1/2   $55-5/8   $57-3/4
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

<FN>
*AS REPORTED IN The Wall Street Journal.
</TABLE>

As of January 31, 1995, there were approximately 59,749 holders of the
Company's common stock (symbol PFE).

                                                                            53
<PAGE>


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

CORPORATE                                     SHAREHOLDER
INFORMATION                                   INFORMATION

<S>                                           <C>                                          <C>


BUSINESS SEGMENTS                             STOCK LISTINGS                               ANNUAL MEETING
                                              Pfizer Common Stock is listed on the New     The Pfizer Annual Meeting will be held
HEALTH CARE                                   York Stock Exchange. It is also listed       on Thursday, April 27, 1995, at 10:00
ANIMAL HEALTH                                 on the London, Paris, and Brussels           A.M. at The Empire State Ballroom, The
CONSUMER HEALTH CARE                          exchanges and Swiss exchanges in Basel,      Grand Hyatt, 42nd Street at Lexington
FOOD SCIENCE                                  Zurich, and Geneva. Pfizer Common Stock      Avenue, New York City. Detailed
                                              is also traded on various United States      information about the meeting is
MAJOR BUSINESS GROUPS,                        regional stock exchanges.                    contained in the Notice of Annual
THEIR PRINCIPAL DIVISIONS, AND                                                             Meeting and Proxy Statement sent with a
SUBSIDIARIES                                  REGISTRAR                                    copy of the Annual Report to each
                                              Mellon Securities Trust Company              shareholder of record as of February 21,
U.S. PHARMACEUTICALS GROUP                    120 Broadway                                 1995.
                                              New York, NY 10271
Customer Advocacy                                                                          FORM 10-K
Disease Management                            TRANSFER AGENT                               The Company, upon written request, will
National Accounts                             Pfizer Inc                                   provide without charge to each
Sales Management                              Inquiries concerning transfer                shareholder a copy of the Company's
   National Healthcare Operations             requirements, stock holdings, dividend       annual report on Securities and Exchange
   Pfizer Labs                                checks, and change of address should be      Commission Form 10-K for the fiscal year
   Pratt Pharmaceuticals                      directed to:                                 ended December 31, 1994, including the
   Roerig                                                                                  financial schedules thereto. The report
                                              Shareholder Services                         will be available on or about March 31,
INTERNATIONAL PHARMACEUTICALS GROUP           Pfizer Inc                                   1995. Requests should be directed to:
Pfizer International subsidiaries             235 East 42nd Street
                                              New York, NY 10017-5755                      Secretary
HOSPITAL PRODUCTS GROUP                       Tel: (800) PFE 9393                          Pfizer Inc
Howmedica                                                                                  235 East 42nd Street
Medical Devices                               DUPLICATE MAILINGS                           New York, NY 10017-5755
   American Medical Systems                   When several shareholders live at the
   Biomedical Sensors                         same address, they may receive more          POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEE
   Schneider                                  copies of quarterly reports than they        A report of campaign contributions made
   Strato/Infusaid                            need. The excess can be eliminated by        by the Company's Political Action
   Valleylab                                  writing to:                                  Committee in 1994 is available to
                                                                                           shareholders upon written request to:
ANIMAL HEALTH GROUP                           Shareholder Services
                                              Pfizer Inc                                   Secretary
CONSUMER HEALTH CARE GROUP                    235 East 42nd Street                         Pfizer Inc
                                              New York, NY 10017-5755                      235 East 42nd Street
FOOD SCIENCE GROUP                                                                         New York, NY 10017-5755
                                              Please be sure to include the numbers of
PFIZER INTERNATIONAL BANK EUROPE              those accounts whose duplicate mailing       INVESTOR RELATIONS
                                              should be eliminated. This will not          Security analysts and investment
                                              affect dividend or proxy mailings.           professionals should direct their
                                                                                           business-related inquiries to:
                                              SHAREHOLDER PROGRAMS
                                              A shareholder of record interested in        James Gardner, Ph.D.
                                              the Shareholder Investment Program, the      Vice President--Investor Relations
                                              Direct Deposit of Dividends Service, or      Pfizer Inc
                                              inquiring about an established program       235 East 42nd Street
                                              account should direct inquiry to:            New York, NY 10017-5755
                                                                                           Tel: (212) 573 3267
                                              Shareholder Services
                                              Pfizer Inc                                   CUSTOMER HELP LINE
                                              235 East 42nd Street                         Consumers or health care professionals
                                              New York, NY 10017-5755                      who have questions about any Pfizer
                                              Tel: (800) PFE 9393                          medication should call: (800) 438 1985

                                                                                           SHAREHOLDER HELP LINE
                                                                                           Shareholders with questions about their
                                                                                           account should call: (800) PFE 9393

                                                                                           CORPORATE AFFAIRS HELP LINE
                                                                                           People interested in receiving
                                                                                           literature about Pfizer should call:
                                                                                           (800) PFE 4717

</TABLE>


58

</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-13.B
<SEQUENCE>7
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 13(B)
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                            ------------------------

                                   FORM 11-K

             FOR ANNUAL REPORTS OF EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE, SAVINGS
                 AND SIMILAR PLANS PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(d) OF
                      THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

(MARK ONE)
/X/  ANNUAL  REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(d)  OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
     1934 (FEE REQUIRED)

                  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994

                                       OR

/ /  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE  ACT
     OF 1934 (NO FEE REQUIRED)

                   For the transition period from ... to ...
                         Commission file number 1-3619

A.  FULL  TITLE OF THE PLAN AND THE ADDRESS  OF THE PLAN, IF DIFFERENT FROM THAT
    OF THE ISSUER NAMED BELOW:

                       PFIZER SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN

B.  NAME OF ISSUER OF THE SECURITIES HELD  PURSUANT TO THE PLAN AND THE  ADDRESS
    OF ITS PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICES:

                                  PFIZER INC.
                              235 EAST 42ND STREET
                            NEW YORK, NEW YORK 10017

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<PAGE>
                       PFIZER SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN
                       STATEMENT OF NET ASSETS AVAILABLE
                               FOR PLAN BENEFITS
                               DECEMBER 31, 1994
                   (THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS EXCEPT UNIT VALUES)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                           NON-PARTICIPANT
                                                              DIRECTED
                                                           ---------------                    PARTICIPANT DIRECTED
                                                           COMPANY COMMON    ------------------------------------------------------
                                                 TOTAL       STOCK FUND        FUND A      FUND B      FUND C    FUND D   LOAN FUND
                                               ----------  ---------------   ----------  ----------  ----------  -------  ---------
<S>                                            <C>         <C>               <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>      <C>
Investments, at fair value:
  Pfizer Inc. common stock:
   Company Common Stock Fund, 5,342,855
   shares, cost $121,680; Fund C, 4,718,276
   shares, cost $132,224.....................  $  777,223      $412,736      $       --  $       --    $364,487  $    --   $    --
  Intermediate Treasury Bond Fund, cost
   $120,852..................................     114,791            --         114,791          --          --       --        --
  Other marketable securities, cost
   $40,603...................................      66,783            --              --      66,783          --       --        --
Investment contracts with insurance
 companies, at contract value................      37,892            --          37,892          --          --       --        --
Cash and short-term securities, at fair
 value.......................................       4,584            78             250         107          71    4,078        --
Loans to participants........................      24,528            --              --          --          --       --    24,528
Interest receivable..........................       2,334             5           2,306           1           4       18        --
Contributions receivable from employers,
 including amounts collected from
 employees...................................       7,149         2,268           1,758         868         919    1,336        --
                                                ---------   -----------        --------     -------    --------   ------  --------
                                                1,035,284       415,087         156,997      67,759     365,481    5,432    24,528
Payables arising from securities purchased...          (5)           --              (2)         (3)         --       --        --
                                                ---------   -----------        --------     -------    --------   ------  --------
Net assets available for plan benefits --
 Note 8......................................  $1,035,279      $415,087        $156,995     $67,756    $365,481   $5,432   $24,528
                                                ---------   -----------        --------     -------    --------   ------  --------
                                                ---------   -----------        --------     -------    --------   ------  --------
Number of units outstanding at end of year...                35,818,415      15,360,416   6,808,008  31,611,989  493,338
Unit Value -- Note 1.........................                    $11.38          $10.00       $9.77      $11.38   $10.08
</TABLE>

     See Notes to Financial Statements which are an integral part of these
                                  statements.

                                       1
<PAGE>
                       PFIZER SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN
                       STATEMENT OF NET ASSETS AVAILABLE
                               FOR PLAN BENEFITS
                               DECEMBER 31, 1993
                   (THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS EXCEPT UNIT VALUES)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                     NON-PARTICIPANT
                                                                        DIRECTED
                                                                     ---------------               PARTICIPANT DIRECTED
                                                                     COMPANY COMMON    --------------------------------------------
                                                            TOTAL      STOCK FUND        FUND A     FUND B      FUND C    LOAN FUND
                                                           --------  ---------------   ----------  ---------  ----------  ---------
<S>                                                        <C>       <C>               <C>         <C>        <C>         <C>
Investments, at fair value:
  Pfizer Inc. common stock:
   Company Common Stock Fund, 5,279,097 shares, cost
   $107,260; Fund C, 4,675,949 shares, cost $120,604.....  $690,009      $365,907      $       --  $      --    $324,102   $    --
  Intermediate Treasury Bond Fund, cost $33,548..........    33,502            --          33,502         --          --        --
  Other marketable securities, cost $31,562..............    58,580            --              --     58,580          --        --
Investment contracts with insurance companies, at
 contract value..........................................   118,998            --         118,998         --          --        --
Short-term securities, at fair value.....................     1,983           792             223        333         635        --
Loans to participants....................................    14,867            --              --         --          --    14,867
Interest receivable......................................       433             2             428          1           2        --
Contributions receivable from employers, including
 amounts collected from employees........................     7,335         2,383           2,413        958       1,581        --
                                                           --------   -----------        --------    -------    --------  --------
                                                            925,707       369,084         155,564     59,872     326,320    14,867
Payables arising from securities purchased...............      (853)         (170)           (289)       (79)       (315)       --
                                                           --------   -----------        --------    -------    --------  --------
Net assets available for plan benefits -- Note 8.........  $924,854      $368,914        $155,275    $59,793    $326,005   $14,867
                                                           --------   -----------        --------    -------    --------  --------
                                                           --------   -----------        --------    -------    --------  --------
Number of units outstanding at end of year...............               7,763,499      20,233,118  7,207,663  12,489,551
Unit Value -- Note 1.....................................                  $47.52           $7.67      $8.30      $26.10
</TABLE>

     See Notes to Financial Statements which are an integral part of these
                                  statements.

                                       2
<PAGE>
                       PFIZER SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN
                  STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN NET ASSETS AVAILABLE
                               FOR PLAN BENEFITS
                          YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1994
                             (THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                           NON-
                                                                        PARTICIPANT
                                                                         DIRECTED
                                                                        ----------
                                                                         COMPANY                  PARTICIPANT DIRECTED
                                                                          COMMON     ----------------------------------------------
                                                              TOTAL     STOCK FUND    FUND A   FUND B    FUND C   FUND D  LOAN FUND
                                                            ----------  ----------   --------  -------  --------  ------  ---------
<S>                                                         <C>         <C>          <C>       <C>      <C>       <C>     <C>
Net investment income
  Cash dividends:
    Pfizer Inc. common stock..............................  $   18,635   $   9,852   $     --  $    --  $  8,783  $   --   $    --
    Other marketable securities...........................       1,699          --         --    1,699        --      --
  Interest................................................      12,759          35     11,628       24        38      28     1,006
                                                            ----------  ----------   --------  -------  --------  ------  ---------
                                                                33,093       9,887     11,628    1,723     8,821      28     1,006
Investment management fees -- Note 4......................         (39)         --        (24)     (15)       --      --        --
                                                            ----------  ----------   --------  -------  --------  ------  ---------
                                                                33,054       9,887     11,604    1,708     8,821      28     1,006
                                                            ----------  ----------   --------  -------  --------  ------  ---------
Realized gains (losses) on investments -- Note 5
  Pfizer Inc. common stock................................      20,942      10,582         --       --    10,360      --        --
  Other securities........................................        (343)         --       (350)       7        --      --        --
                                                            ----------  ----------   --------  -------  --------  ------  ---------
                                                                20,599      10,582       (350)       7    10,360      --        --
                                                            ----------  ----------   --------  -------  --------  ------  ---------
Unrealized appreciation (depreciation) of investments --
 Note 6...................................................      54,321      32,408     (6,015)    (838)   28,766      --        --
                                                            ----------  ----------   --------  -------  --------  ------  ---------
                                                               107,974      52,877      5,239      877    47,947      28     1,006
                                                            ----------  ----------   --------  -------  --------  ------  ---------
Contributions -- Note 7
  Employees...............................................      60,115          --     14,525   11,603    33,952      35        --
  Employers...............................................      28,723      28,723         --       --        --      --        --
Withdrawals -- Note 8.....................................     (86,387)    (33,694)   (19,644)  (5,467)  (27,582)     --        --
Loan transaction transfers -- net.........................          --      (1,733)    (2,015)    (678)   (4,225)     (4)    8,655
Transfers at fair market value -- net.....................          --          --      3,615    1,628   (10,616)  5,373        --
                                                            ----------  ----------   --------  -------  --------  ------  ---------
                                                                 2,451      (6,704)    (3,519)   7,086    (8,471)  5,404     8,655
                                                            ----------  ----------   --------  -------  --------  ------  ---------
Net increase..............................................     110,425      46,173      1,720    7,963    39,476   5,432     9,661
Net assets available for plan benefits:
  Beginning of year.......................................     924,854     368,914    155,275   59,793   326,005      --    14,867
                                                            ----------  ----------   --------  -------  --------  ------  ---------
  End of year.............................................  $1,035,279   $ 415,087   $156,995  $67,756  $365,481  $5,432   $24,528
                                                            ----------  ----------   --------  -------  --------  ------  ---------
                                                            ----------  ----------   --------  -------  --------  ------  ---------
</TABLE>

     See Notes to Financial Statements which are an integral part of these
                                  statements.

                                       3
<PAGE>
                       PFIZER SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN
                  STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN NET ASSETS AVAILABLE
                               FOR PLAN BENEFITS
                          YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1993
                             (THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                   NON-
                                                                                PARTICIPANT
                                                                                 DIRECTED
                                                                                ----------
                                                                                 COMPANY              PARTICIPANT DIRECTED
                                                                                  COMMON     --------------------------------------
                                                                       TOTAL    STOCK FUND    FUND A   FUND B    FUND C   LOAN FUND
                                                                      --------  ----------   --------  -------  --------  ---------
<S>                                                                   <C>       <C>          <C>       <C>      <C>       <C>
Net investment income
  Cash dividends:
    Pfizer Inc. common stock........................................  $ 16,712   $   8,852   $     --  $    --  $  7,860   $    --
    Other marketable securities.....................................     1,508          --         --    1,508        --        --
Interest............................................................    12,946          50     12,622       17        47       210
                                                                      --------  ----------   --------  -------  --------  ---------
                                                                        31,166       8,902     12,622    1,525     7,907       210
Investment management fees -- Note 4................................       (41)         --         (3)     (38)       --        --
                                                                      --------  ----------   --------  -------  --------  ---------
                                                                        31,125       8,902     12,619    1,487     7,907       210
                                                                      --------  ----------   --------  -------  --------  ---------
Realized gains on investments -- Note 5
  Pfizer Inc. common stock..........................................    39,136      22,278         --       --    16,858        --
  Other securities..................................................       945          --         13      932        --        --
                                                                      --------  ----------   --------  -------  --------  ---------
                                                                        40,081      22,278         13      932    16,858        --
                                                                      --------  ----------   --------  -------  --------  ---------
Unrealized appreciation (depreciation) of investments -- Note 6.....   (72,738)    (42,509)       (33)   2,727   (32,923)       --
                                                                      --------  ----------   --------  -------  --------  ---------
                                                                        (1,532)    (11,329)    12,599    5,146    (8,158)      210
                                                                      --------  ----------   --------  -------  --------  ---------
Contributions -- Note 7:
  Employees.........................................................    57,267          --     14,226    8,099    34,942        --
  Employers.........................................................    27,580      27,580         --       --        --        --
Withdrawals -- Note 8...............................................  (122,873)    (48,734)   (24,752)  (7,074)  (42,313)       --
Loan transaction transfers -- net...................................        --      (2,811)    (3,057)  (1,136)   (7,653)   14,657
Transfers at fair market value -- net...............................        --          --     (2,493)     865     1,628        --
                                                                      --------  ----------   --------  -------  --------  ---------
                                                                       (38,026)    (23,965)   (16,076)     754   (13,396)   14,657
                                                                      --------  ----------   --------  -------  --------  ---------
Net increase (decrease).............................................   (39,558)    (35,294)    (3,477)   5,900   (21,554)   14,867
Net assets available for plan benefits:
  Beginning of year.................................................   964,412     404,208    158,752   53,893   347,559        --
                                                                      --------  ----------   --------  -------  --------  ---------
  End of year.......................................................  $924,854   $ 368,914   $155,275  $59,793  $326,005   $14,867
                                                                      --------  ----------   --------  -------  --------  ---------
                                                                      --------  ----------   --------  -------  --------  ---------
</TABLE>

     See Notes to Financial Statements which are an integral part of these
                                  statements.

                                       4
<PAGE>
                       PFIZER SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN
                         NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                           DECEMBER 31, 1994 AND 1993

NOTE 1 -- SUMMARY PLAN DESCRIPTION

    GENERAL  --  The  Pfizer  Savings  and  Investment  Plan  (the  "Plan")  was
originally adopted by Pfizer Inc. (the "Company") in 1965 as the Pfizer  Savings
Plan  and has been amended  from time to time  since that date. Participation in
the Plan is open to employees of the Company and any corporation which, with the
consent of the  Company, adopts the  Plan ("Associate Companies").  The Plan  is
subject  to the  provisions of  the Employee  Retirement Income  Security Act of
1974.

    Effective December 31, 1992, all new contributions, in excess of withdrawals
and transfers, directed to Fund  A of the Plan  are invested in an  intermediate
U.S. Treasury bond fund. In addition, as the investment contracts with insurance
companies  in  Fund  A  mature,  the  contracts'  proceeds  are  invested  in an
intermediate U.S. Treasury bond fund.

    CONTRIBUTIONS -- Each  participant may  make contributions  on an  after-tax
basis  or  on  a  before-tax  basis  (that  is,  choose  to  reduce  his  or her
compensation and  have the  Company contribute  on his  or her  behalf), or  may
contribute on a basis combining the two. Before-tax contributions are subject to
certain  restrictions for employees who  are considered highly compensated under
the Internal Revenue  Code of 1986,  as amended.  Contributions of up  to 2%  of
compensation  are matched 100%  by the Company  and the next  4% is matched 50%.
Employee contributions in excess of 6% are not matched.

    INVESTMENT OPTIONS -- Each participant in the Plan elects to have his or her
contribution invested in any  one or any combination  of four investment  funds.
These funds are described as follows:

        Fund A -- An   intermediate  U.S.  Treasury  bond  fund  and  investment
                  contracts with one  or more insurance  companies (see  GENERAL
                  caption   above  for  a  description  of  Fund  A  investments
                  effective December 31, 1992).

        Fund B -- An index fund of corporate common stocks.

        Fund C -- Common stock of the Company.

        Fund D -- U.S. Treasury and government  agency money market  investments
                  with   short  maturities  less  than  one  year  (fund  became
                  available to participants in October 1994).

    At December 31, 1994  and 1993, respectively, there  were 14,670 and  14,197
employees  participating in the Plan, some of  whom had investments in more than
one employee investment fund.  On the basis of  allocations by the employees  of
their  contributions at  December 31,  1994 and  1993, respectively,  Fund A had
5,506 and 6,768 participating employees; Fund B, 4,242, and 4,261, Fund C, 9,299
and 11,274 and Fund D, 55 participating employees in 1994.

    All Company matching contributions  are invested by the  Trustee in a  fifth
fund designated the "Company Common Stock Fund," which consists solely of common
stock of the Company. These contributions are non-participant directed.

    In  1994,  the Company  changed the  Plan  Administrator, resulting  in unit
values established at $10.00 per unit at the date of the change. On the  current
Plan  Administrator's basis, the  December 31, 1993 unit  values would have been
$9.66, $9.63, $9.94 and  $9.94 for Funds  A, B, C and  the Company Common  Stock
Fund, respectively.

    The  Trust Agreement provides that any portion of any of the five funds may,
pending its  permanent investment  or distribution,  be invested  in  short-term
investments.

                                       5
<PAGE>
                       PFIZER SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN
                   NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                           DECEMBER 31, 1994 AND 1993

NOTE 1 -- SUMMARY PLAN DESCRIPTION (CONTINUED)
    VESTING  --  Members  are immediately  vested  in  the full  value  of their
accounts (i.e., participants' and employers' contributions) in Funds A, B, C and
D and the Company Common Stock Fund.

    WITHDRAWALS --  A  participant  in the  Plan  may  make a  full  or  partial
withdrawal of funds subject to the provisions of the Plan.

    LOANS  -- Effective July 1, 1993,  Plan participants are permitted to borrow
against their vested  balance. The minimum  amount a participant  may borrow  is
$1,000 and the maximum amount is the lesser of 50% of the vested account balance
reduced  by  any current  outstanding  loan balance  or  $50,000 reduced  by the
highest outstanding loan balance in the preceding 12 months.

    Under the terms of the Plan, loans must be repaid within five years,  unless
the funds are used to purchase a primary residence. Primary residence loans must
be  repaid over 10 or 15  years. The interest rate on  all loans is based on the
prime rate  plus  1%.  Interest paid  by  the  participant is  credited  to  the
participant's account.

    TERMINATION  -- The Company  expects to continue  the Plan indefinitely, but
necessarily reserves the right to amend,  suspend or discontinue it in whole  or
in  part  at  any time  by  action of  the  Company's Board  of  Directors. Upon
termination of the  Plan, each member  affected thereby shall  receive the  full
value  of his  or her share  in Funds  A, B, C,  D and  his or her  share in the
Company Common Stock Fund as though he or she had retired as of the date of such
termination. No part of the assets in the investment funds established  pursuant
to the Plan will at any time revert to the Company.

NOTE 2 -- SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

    INVESTMENT VALUATION -- The investment in the index fund of corporate common
stocks   represents  the  estimated  fair  value  of  the  number  of  units  of
participation held by the Plan in that fund. Pfizer Inc. common stock is  valued
at the closing market price on the last business day of the year. The investment
in  the intermediate U.S. Treasury bond fund represents the estimated fair value
of the bonds held by the  Plan in that fund as of  the last business day of  the
year.  Investments in the Collective Short Term Investment Fund included in Cash
and short-term  securities  are  recorded  at  fair  value  and  the  investment
contracts  with  insurance  companies  are  recorded  at  contract  value. Other
short-term investments and time deposits are recorded at fair value.

    SECURITY TRANSACTIONS -- Purchases and sales of securities are reflected  on
a  trade-date  basis.  Realized gains  and  losses  on sales  of  securities are
computed using an actual basis when the  entire position in a security is  sold,
or an average basis when less than the entire position in a security is sold.

    UNREALIZED  APPRECIATION  (DEPRECIATION)  --  Amounts  shown  as  unrealized
appreciation (depreciation) reflect changes between cost and fair value from the
beginning of the year or date of purchase, whichever is later, to the end of the
year.

    REVENUE RECOGNITION -- Dividend income is recorded on the ex-dividend  date.
Income from other investments is recorded as earned.

NOTE 3 -- INCOME TAXES
    No  provision  has been  made  for Federal  income  tax in  reliance  upon a
determination letter issued by the  Internal Revenue Service, which states  that
the  Plan meets the requirements of Section  401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code
and that the  trust established thereunder  is entitled to  exemption under  the
provisions of Section 501(a).

                                       6
<PAGE>
                       PFIZER SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN
                   NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                           DECEMBER 31, 1994 AND 1993

NOTE 3 -- INCOME TAXES (CONTINUED)
    All  contributions made  to the  Plan by  the Company,  including before-tax
contributions made on the employee's behalf by the Company and the  appreciation
on  all funds in  the employee's account  are not taxable  to the employee under
Federal income tax law while these amounts remain in the Plan.

NOTE 4 -- ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS
    Except for certain member transfer costs and the investment management  fees
(Fund  A, Fund B and  Fund D), all costs and  expenses of administering the Plan
were borne by the Company.

NOTE 5 -- REALIZED GAINS (LOSSES) ON INVESTMENTS
    The $20,942,000  realized  gains  on  Pfizer  Inc.  common  stock  for  1994
represents   the  difference  between  the  $32,958,000  net  proceeds  and  the
$12,016,000 cost  (on an  average  basis) of  shares  disposed of  and  includes
$15,172,000 related to shares sold and shares distributed in kind to members who
withdrew from the Plan on retirement or termination.

    The  $39,136,000  realized  gains  on  Pfizer  Inc.  common  stock  for 1993
represents the difference between the  $57,634,000 net proceeds and  $18,498,000
cost  (on  an average  basis)  of shares  disposed  of and  includes $11,161,000
related to shares sold  and shares distributed in  kind to members who  withdrew
from the Plan on retirement or termination. In addition, the 1993 realized gains
include  $27,975,000  related  to the  transfer  of  Plan assets  of  the former
employees  of  the  Pfizer  Inc.  Specialty  Minerals  Group  to  the   Minerals
Technologies Inc. Savings and Investment Plan.

    The  $343,000 realized  losses on other  securities for  1994 represents the
difference  between  the  aggregate  actual  proceeds  of  $19,928,000  and  the
$20,271,000 aggregate cost (actual or average) of securities sold.

    The  $945,000 realized  gains on  other securities  for 1993  represents the
excess of  the  aggregate actual  proceeds  of $8,722,000  over  the  $7,777,000
aggregate cost (actual or average) of securities sold.

NOTE 6 -- UNREALIZED APPRECIATION (DEPRECIATION) OF INVESTMENTS
    The  change in the  amount of unrealized  appreciation (depreciation) was as
follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                              BALANCE
                     ----------------------------------------------------------
                     DECEMBER 31, 1994   DECEMBER 31,1993    CHANGE DURING 1994
                     -----------------   -----------------   ------------------
                                       (THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)
<S>                  <C>                 <C>                 <C>
Company Common
 Stock Fund........      $291,055            $258,647             $ 32,408
Fund A.............        (6,061)                (46)              (6,015)
Fund B.............        26,180              27,018                 (838)
Fund C.............       232,264             203,498               28,766
                     -----------------   -----------------        --------
                         $543,438            $489,117             $ 54,321
                     -----------------   -----------------        --------
                     -----------------   -----------------        --------
</TABLE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                              BALANCE
                     ----------------------------------------------------------
                     DECEMBER 31, 1993   DECEMBER 31,1992    CHANGE DURING 1993
                     -----------------   -----------------   ------------------
                                       (THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)
<S>                  <C>                 <C>                 <C>
Company Common
 Stock Fund........      $258,647            $301,156             $(42,509)
Fund A.............           (46)                (13)                 (33)
Fund B.............        27,018              24,291                2,727
Fund C.............       203,498             236,421              (32,923)
                     -----------------   -----------------        --------
                         $489,117            $561,855             $(72,738)
                     -----------------   -----------------        --------
                     -----------------   -----------------        --------
</TABLE>

                                       7
<PAGE>
                       PFIZER SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN
                   NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                           DECEMBER 31, 1994 AND 1993

NOTE 7 -- CONTRIBUTIONS
    The participating employees  and their employers  contributed the  following
amounts to the Plan:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                          1994
                                         ---------------------------------------
                                         PARTICIPATING   PARTICIPATING
                                           EMPLOYEES       EMPLOYERS      TOTAL
                                         -------------   -------------   -------
                                                 (THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)
<S>                                      <C>             <C>             <C>
Pfizer Inc. ...........................     $46,405         $22,914      $69,319
Associate Companies....................      13,710           5,809       19,519
                                         -------------   -------------   -------
                                            $60,115         $28,723      $88,838
                                         -------------   -------------   -------
                                         -------------   -------------   -------
</TABLE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                          1993
                                         ---------------------------------------
                                         PARTICIPATING   PARTICIPATING
                                           EMPLOYEES       EMPLOYERS      TOTAL
                                         -------------   -------------   -------
                                                 (THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)
<S>                                      <C>             <C>             <C>
Pfizer Inc. ...........................     $43,967         $21,759      $65,726
Associate Companies....................      13,300           5,821       19,121
                                         -------------   -------------   -------
                                            $57,267         $27,580      $84,847
                                         -------------   -------------   -------
                                         -------------   -------------   -------
</TABLE>

NOTE 8 -- WITHDRAWALS
    In  1993, the proportionate interest in the assets of the Plan, amounting to
$53,140,087 of former  employees of  Pfizer Inc. Specialty  Minerals Group  were
transferred  to  the Minerals  Technologies  Inc. Savings  and  Investment Plan.
Assets transferred  consisted  of  cash,  investment  contracts  with  insurance
companies and shares of Pfizer Inc. common stock.

    The  net assets available for Plan benefits as of December 31, 1994 and 1993
do not reflect a  reduction for the following  benefits payable to  participants
who  had requested withdrawals as of December 31, but which were not distributed
until the subsequent year:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                 1994     1993
                                                                -------  -------
                                                                 (THOUSANDS OF
                                                                    DOLLARS)
<S>                                                             <C>      <C>
Company Common Stock Fund.....................................  $ 7,588  $ 7,796
Fund A........................................................    3,253    3,783
Fund B........................................................    1,250    1,027
Fund C........................................................    5,856    7,363
Fund D........................................................      461       --
                                                                -------  -------
                                                                $18,408  $19,969
                                                                -------  -------
                                                                -------  -------
</TABLE>

NOTE 9 -- RECONCILIATION WITH FORM 5500
    For financial statement purposes, participant withdrawals and  distributions
are  recorded when paid rather than when processed and approved for payment. For
the purposes of Form 5500, such withdrawals and distributions are recorded  when
processed  and approved for payment; therefore, benefits payable to participants
who have requested withdrawals as of  December 31, 1994 and 1993 of  $18,408,000
and $19,969,000, respectively, have been included in benefit expense within Form
5500 for those years.

                                       8
<PAGE>
                                   SCHEDULE 1
                       PFIZER SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN
                      ASSETS HELD FOR INVESTMENT PURPOSES
                               DECEMBER 31, 1994
                             (THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)

INVESTMENTS:
FUND A:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                 INTEREST    MATURITY  CONTRACT
INVESTMENT CONTRACTS WITH INSURANCE COMPANIES      RATE        DATE     VALUE
-----------------------------------------------  ---------   --------  --------
<S>                                              <C>         <C>       <C>
Continental Assurance Co. Group Annuity
 Contract #12682...............................         8.46%   6/3/96 $ 25,270
Provident National Assurance Co. Group Annuity
 Contract #027-65041...........................         8.43%   6/3/96   12,622
                                                                       --------
    Total Investment Contracts with Insurance
     Companies.................................                        $ 37,892
                                                                       --------
                                                                       --------
</TABLE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                          FAIR
FIXED INCOME INVESTMENTS                                        COST     VALUE
-------------------------------------------------             --------  --------
<S>                                                <C>        <C>       <C>
Northern Trust Intermediate Treasury Bond Fund...             $120,852  $114,791
                                                              --------  --------
                                                              --------  --------

FUND B:

<CAPTION>

                                                   NUMBER OF              FAIR
COMMON STOCK INDEX FUND                              UNITS      COST     VALUE
-------------------------------------------------  ---------  --------  --------
<S>                                                <C>        <C>       <C>
Northern Trust Collective Stock Index Fund.......  1,732,831  $ 40,603  $ 66,783
                                                   ---------  --------  --------
                                                   ---------  --------  --------
</TABLE>

SHORT-TERM SECURITIES:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                   INTEREST  MATURITY   NUMBER             FAIR
NAME OF ISSUER                       RATE      DATE    OF UNITS    COST   VALUE
---------------------------------  --------  --------  ---------  ------  ------
<S>                                <C>       <C>       <C>        <C>     <C>
Northern Trust Collective
 Short-Term Investment Fund:
    Company Common Stock Fund      Various   Various      77,669  $   78  $   78
    FUND A                         Various   Various     249,777     250     250
    FUND B                         Various   Various     106,765     107     107
    FUND C                         Various   Various      70,517      71      71
Northern Trust Government
 Short-Term Investment Fund:
    FUND D                         Various   Various   4,078,227   4,078   4,078
                                                                  ------  ------
    Total Short-Term
     Securities..................                                 $4,584  $4,584
                                                                  ------  ------
                                                                  ------  ------
</TABLE>

                                       9
<PAGE>
                                   SCHEDULE 2
                       PFIZER SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN
                      SCHEDULE OF REPORTABLE TRANSACTIONS

                          YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1994
                             (THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)

FUND C AND COMPANY COMMON STOCK FUND:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                              NUMBER OF     NUMBER OF
SECURITIES PURCHASED                         TRANSACTIONS    SHARES       COST
-------------------------------------------  ------------   ---------   --------
<S>                                          <C>            <C>         <C>
Pfizer Inc. common stock...................         33       609,641    $ 38,056
                                             ------------   ---------   --------
                                             ------------   ---------   --------
</TABLE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                         FAIR VALUE
SECURITIES            NUMBER OF     NUMBER OF            OF DISPOSED   REALIZED
 DISPOSED*           TRANSACTIONS    SHARES      COST      SHARES       GAINS
-------------------  ------------   ---------   -------  -----------   --------
<S>                  <C>            <C>         <C>      <C>           <C>
Pfizer Inc. common
 stock.............        208       503,556    $12,016    $32,958     $ 20,942
                     ------------   ---------   -------  -----------   --------
                     ------------   ---------   -------  -----------   --------
<FN>
------------------------
*    Dispositions represent sales of stock and shares distributed in kind to
     members who withdrew from the Plan on retirement or termination.
</TABLE>

                                       10
<PAGE>
                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

To the Savings and Investment Plan Committee
 Pfizer Savings and Investment Plan:

    We  have audited the accompanying statement of net assets available for plan
benefits of the Pfizer Savings and Investment Plan (the Plan) as of December 31,
1994 and 1993, and the related statements of changes in net assets available for
plan benefits  for the  years then  ended. These  financial statements  are  the
responsibility  of the  Plan's management. Our  responsibility is  to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

    We conducted  our  audits in  accordance  with generally  accepted  auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence  supporting
the  amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the  accounting  principles used  and  significant estimates  made  by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

    In our opinion, the financial  statements referred to above present  fairly,
in all material respects, the net assets available for plan benefits of the Plan
as  of December 31, 1994  and 1993, and the changes  in net assets available for
plan benefits for the  years then ended, in  conformity with generally  accepted
accounting principles.

    Our audits were performed for the purpose of forming an opinion on the basic
financial  statements taken as a whole. The supplemental schedules of (1) assets
held for investment purposes and (2)  reportable transactions, as of or for  the
year  ended  December 31,  1994,  are presented  for  the purpose  of additional
analysis and are not a required part  of the basic financial statements but  are
supplementary  information  required  by  the Department  of  Labor's  Rules and
Regulations for Reporting  and Disclosure under  the Employee Retirement  Income
Security  Act of  1974. The  Fund Information  in the  statements of  net assets
available for  plan  benefits  and  the statements  of  changes  in  net  assets
available  for plan  benefits is presented  for purposes  of additional analysis
rather than to present the net assets available for plan benefits and changes in
net assets available for plan benefits of each fund. The supplemental  schedules
and  Fund Information have been subjected  to the auditing procedures applied in
the audits of  the basic financial  statements and, in  our opinion, are  fairly
stated  in all material  respects in relation to  the basic financial statements
taken as a whole.

                                          /s/ KPMG PEAT MARWICK LLP
                                          KPMG PEAT MARWICK LLP

New York, New York
March 23, 1995

                                       11
<PAGE>
                                   SIGNATURES

    THE PLAN.  Pursuant  to the requirements of  the Securities Exchange Act  of
1934,  the members of the Savings and Investment Plan Committee have duly caused
this annual report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto  duly
authorized.

                                          PFIZER SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN
                                          By:        /s/ DAVID L. SHEDLARZ

                                             -----------------------------------
                                                      David L. Shedlarz
                                                   VICE PRESIDENT, FINANCE
                                                CHAIR, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT
                                                       PLAN COMMITTEE

Date: March 23, 1995

                                       12
<PAGE>
                                                                      EXHIBIT 23

                        CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

To the Savings and Investment Plan Committee
 Pfizer Savings and Investment Plan:

    We  consent to incorporation  by reference in  the Registration Statement on
Form S-8 dated January 24,  1991 (File No. 33-38708)  of our report dated  March
23, 1995, relating to the statement of net assets available for plan benefits of
the Pfizer Savings and Investment Plan as of December 31, 1994 and 1993, and the
related  statements of changes in net assets available for plan benefits for the
years then ended, which report appears in the December 31, 1994 annual report on
Form 11-K of the Pfizer Savings and Investment Plan.

                                          /s/ KPMG PEAT MARWICK LLP
                                          KPMG PEAT MARWICK LLP

New York, New York
March 23, 1995

                                       13
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-13.C
<SEQUENCE>8
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 13(C)
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                            ------------------------

                                   FORM 11-K

             FOR ANNUAL REPORTS OF EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE, SAVINGS
                 AND SIMILAR PLANS PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(d) OF
                      THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

(MARK ONE)
/X/  ANNUAL  REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(d)  OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
     1934 (FEE REQUIRED)

                  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994

                                       OR

/ /  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE  ACT
     OF 1934 (NO FEE REQUIRED)

                   For the transition period from ... to ...
                         Commission file number 1-3619

A.  FULL  TITLE OF THE PLAN AND THE ADDRESS  OF THE PLAN, IF DIFFERENT FROM THAT
    OF THE ISSUER NAMED BELOW:

                       PFIZER SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN
                     FOR EMPLOYEES RESIDENT IN PUERTO RICO

B.  NAME OF ISSUER OF THE SECURITIES HELD  PURSUANT TO THE PLAN AND THE  ADDRESS
    OF ITS PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICES:

                                  PFIZER INC.
                              235 EAST 42ND STREET
                            NEW YORK, NEW YORK 10017

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<PAGE>
                       PFIZER SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN
                     FOR EMPLOYEES RESIDENT IN PUERTO RICO

                            STATEMENT OF NET ASSETS
                          AVAILABLE FOR PLAN BENEFITS

                               DECEMBER 31, 1994

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                     NON-
                                                                  PARTICIPANT
                                                                   DIRECTED
                                                                 -------------
                                                                    COMPANY               PARTICIPANT DIRECTED
                                                                 COMMON STOCK   -----------------------------------------
                                                      TOTAL          FUND          FUND A        FUND B        FUND C
                                                  -------------  -------------  -------------  -----------  -------------
<S>                                               <C>            <C>            <C>            <C>          <C>
                     ASSETS
------------------------------------------------

Investments, at fair value:
  Pfizer Inc. common stock:
    Pfizer Inc. Common Stock Fund, 38,207
     shares, cost $2,059,026; Fund C, 33,927
     shares, cost $2,056,665....................  $   5,572,351  $   2,951,523  $          --  $        --  $   2,620,828
  Other marketable securities, cost
   $1,659,293...................................      1,634,171             --      1,369,619      264,552             --
  Interest-bearing deposits.....................        159,799         47,863        107,407        4,529             --
                                                  -------------  -------------  -------------  -----------  -------------
      Total investments.........................      7,366,321      2,999,386      1,477,026      269,081      2,620,828

Interest receivable.............................         28,067            212         27,721           16            118

Contributions receivable:
  Employees.....................................        240,606             --         91,543       12,747        136,316
  Employers.....................................        131,149        131,149             --           --             --
                                                  -------------  -------------  -------------  -----------  -------------
    Net assets available for plan benefits (note
     7).........................................  $   7,766,143  $   3,130,747  $   1,596,290  $   281,844  $   2,757,262
                                                  -------------  -------------  -------------  -----------  -------------
                                                  -------------  -------------  -------------  -----------  -------------

Number of units outstanding at end of year......                     1,297,807      1,233,674      199,889      1,174,996

Unit value......................................                         $2.41          $1.29        $1.41          $2.35
</TABLE>

     See Notes to Financial Statements which are an integral part of these
                                  statements.

                                       1
<PAGE>
                       PFIZER SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN
                     FOR EMPLOYEES RESIDENT IN PUERTO RICO

                            STATEMENT OF NET ASSETS
                          AVAILABLE FOR PLAN BENEFITS

                               DECEMBER 31, 1993

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                   NON-
                                                                PARTICIPANT
                                                                 DIRECTED
                                                               -------------
                                                                  COMPANY                PARTICIPANT DIRECTED
                                                               COMMON STOCK   -------------------------------------------
                                                    TOTAL          FUND          FUND A         FUND B         FUND C
                                                -------------  -------------  -------------  -------------  -------------
<S>                                             <C>            <C>            <C>            <C>            <C>
                    ASSETS
----------------------------------------------

Investments, at fair value:
  Pfizer Inc. common stock:
    Pfizer Inc. Common Stock Fund, 32,077
     shares, cost $1,671,787; Fund C, 27,856
     shares; cost $1,675,218..................  $   4,135,377  $   2,213,342  $          --  $          --  $   1,922,035
  Other marketable securities, cost
   $1,165,353.................................      1,232,359             --        999,584        232,775             --
  Interest-bearing deposits...................         88,639             46         88,331            240             22
                                                -------------  -------------  -------------  -------------  -------------
      Total investments.......................      5,456,375      2,213,388      1,087,915        233,015      1,922,057

Interest receivable...........................         15,808            104         15,609             --             95

Contributions receivable:
  Employees...................................        217,493             --         66,693         12,306        138,494
  Employers...................................        119,914        119,914             --             --             --
                                                -------------  -------------  -------------  -------------  -------------
  Net assets available for plan benefits (note
   7).........................................  $   5,809,590  $   2,333,406  $   1,170,217  $     245,321  $   2,060,646
                                                -------------  -------------  -------------  -------------  -------------
                                                -------------  -------------  -------------  -------------  -------------

Number of units outstanding at end of year....                     1,106,225        901,809        171,281      1,011,238

Unit value....................................                         $2.11          $1.30          $1.43          $2.04
</TABLE>

     See Notes to Financial Statements which are an integral part of these
                                  statements.

                                       2
<PAGE>
                       PFIZER SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN
                     FOR EMPLOYEES RESIDENT IN PUERTO RICO

                       STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN NET ASSETS
                          AVAILABLE FOR PLAN BENEFITS

                          YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1994

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                     NON-
                                                                  PARTICIPANT
                                                                   DIRECTED
                                                                 -------------
                                                                    COMPANY               PARTICIPANT DIRECTED
                                                                 COMMON STOCK   -----------------------------------------
                                                     TOTAL           FUND          FUND A        FUND B        FUND C
                                                 --------------  -------------  -------------  -----------  -------------
<S>                                              <C>             <C>            <C>            <C>          <C>
Net investment income:
  Cash Dividends:
    Pfizer Inc. common stock...................  $      126,512  $      66,877  $          --  $        --  $      59,635
    Other marketable securities................           6,102             --             --        6,102             --
  Interest.....................................          84,462          1,803         80,710          295          1,654
                                                 --------------  -------------  -------------  -----------  -------------
                                                        217,076         68,680         80,710        6,397         61,289

Investment management fees (note 4)............          (1,026)            --             --       (1,026)            --
                                                 --------------  -------------  -------------  -----------  -------------
                                                        216,050         68,680         80,710        5,371         61,289

Realized gains on investments..................           1,356             --             --        1,356             --

Unrealized appreciation (depreciation) of
 investments (note 5)..........................         576,161        350,942        (81,819)     (10,308)       317,346
                                                 --------------  -------------  -------------  -----------  -------------
                                                        793,567        419,622         (1,109)      (3,581)       378,635
                                                 --------------  -------------  -------------  -----------  -------------
Contributions (note 6):
  Employees....................................       2,068,551             --        789,189      130,285      1,149,077
  Employers....................................       1,093,036      1,093,036             --           --             --
Withdrawals....................................      (1,998,601)      (716,082)      (399,980)     (89,122)      (793,417)
Transfers between funds -- net.................              --            765         37,973       (1,059)       (37,679)
                                                 --------------  -------------  -------------  -----------  -------------
                                                      1,162,986        377,719        427,182       40,104        317,981
                                                 --------------  -------------  -------------  -----------  -------------
Net increase...................................       1,956,553        797,341        426,073       36,523        696,616
Net assets available for plan benefits:
  Beginning of year............................       5,809,590      2,333,406      1,170,217      245,321      2,060,646
                                                 --------------  -------------  -------------  -----------  -------------
  End of year..................................  $    7,766,143  $   3,130,747  $   1,596,290  $   281,844  $   2,757,262
                                                 --------------  -------------  -------------  -----------  -------------
                                                 --------------  -------------  -------------  -----------  -------------
</TABLE>

     See Notes to Financial Statements which are an integral part of these
                                  statements.

                                       3
<PAGE>
                       PFIZER SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN
                     FOR EMPLOYEES RESIDENT IN PUERTO RICO

                       STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN NET ASSETS
                          AVAILABLE FOR PLAN BENEFITS

                          YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1993

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                     NON-
                                                                  PARTICIPANT
                                                                   DIRECTED
                                                                 -------------
                                                                    COMPANY               PARTICIPANT DIRECTED
                                                                 COMMON STOCK   -----------------------------------------
                                                     TOTAL           FUND          FUND A        FUND B        FUND C
                                                 --------------  -------------  -------------  -----------  -------------
<S>                                              <C>             <C>            <C>            <C>          <C>
Net investment income:
  Cash Dividends:
    Pfizer Inc. common stock...................  $       89,147  $      48,343  $          --  $        --  $      40,804
    Other marketable securities................           2,445             --             --        2,445             --
  Interest.....................................          61,514          1,057         59,032          183          1,242
                                                 --------------  -------------  -------------  -----------  -------------
                                                        153,106         49,400         59,032        2,628         42,046

Investment management fees (note 4)............          (2,050)            --             --       (2,050)            --
                                                 --------------  -------------  -------------  -----------  -------------
                                                        151,056         49,400         59,032          578         42,046
                                                 --------------  -------------  -------------  -----------  -------------
Realized gains (losses) on investments:
  Pfizer Inc. common stock.....................          (1,379)        (2,679)            --           --          1,300
  Other marketable securities..................           2,915             --            438        2,477             --
                                                 --------------  -------------  -------------  -----------  -------------
                                                          1,536         (2,679)           438        2,477          1,300
                                                 --------------  -------------  -------------  -----------  -------------
Unrealized appreciation (depreciation) of
 investments (note 5)..........................         (70,182)       (55,143)        (1,579)      15,152        (28,612)
                                                 --------------  -------------  -------------  -----------  -------------
                                                         82,410         (8,422)        57,891       18,207         14,734
                                                 --------------  -------------  -------------  -----------  -------------
Contributions (note 6):
  Employees....................................       1,783,139             --        519,176      104,384      1,159,579
  Employers....................................         995,301        995,301             --           --             --
Withdrawals....................................      (1,658,733)      (595,472)      (375,412)     (73,630)      (614,219)
Transfers between funds -- net.................              --        (19,014)        94,025      (10,500)       (64,511)
                                                 --------------  -------------  -------------  -----------  -------------
                                                      1,119,707        380,815        237,789       20,254        480,849
                                                 --------------  -------------  -------------  -----------  -------------
Net increase...................................       1,202,117        372,393        295,680       38,461        495,583
Net assets available for plan benefits:
  Beginning of year............................       4,607,473      1,961,013        874,537      206,860      1,565,063
                                                 --------------  -------------  -------------  -----------  -------------
  End of year..................................  $    5,809,590  $   2,333,406  $   1,170,217  $   245,321  $   2,060,646
                                                 --------------  -------------  -------------  -----------  -------------
                                                 --------------  -------------  -------------  -----------  -------------
</TABLE>

     See Notes to Financial Statements which are an integral part of these
                                  statements.

                                       4
<PAGE>
                     PFIZER SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN FOR
                       EMPLOYEES RESIDENT IN PUERTO RICO
                         NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                           DECEMBER 31, 1994 AND 1993

(1) SUMMARY PLAN DESCRIPTION
    GENERAL  -- The Pfizer Savings and Investment Plan for Employees Resident in
Puerto Rico (the  "Plan") is  a contributory defined  contribution savings  plan
which  was adopted  on February 1,  1990. Participation  in the Plan  is open to
employees of  Pfizer  Pharmaceuticals,  Inc. (Puerto  Rico  Branch)  and  Pfizer
Corporation   (Puerto   Rico   Branch)  (individually   and   collectively,  the
"Companies"). The Plan is subject to  the provisions of the Employee  Retirement
Income Security Act of 1974.

    CONTRIBUTIONS  -- Each  participant may  make contributions  on an after-tax
basis or  on  a  before-tax  basis  (that  is,  choose  to  reduce  his  or  her
compensation  and have the  Companies contribute on  his or her  behalf), or may
contribute on a basis combining the two. Before-tax contributions are subject to
certain restrictions for employees who  are considered highly compensated  under
Section  165(e)  of  the  Puerto  Rico  Income  Tax  Act  of  1954,  as amended.
Contributions of up to 2% of compensation are matched 100% by the Companies  and
the  next 4%  is matched  50%. Employee  contributions in  excess of  6% are not
matched.

    INVESTMENT OPTIONS -- Each participant in the Plan elects to have his or her
contributions invested in  any one or  any combination of  the three  investment
funds. These funds are described below:

        Fund A -- Fixed income

        Fund B -- An index fund of corporate common stocks

        Fund C -- Common stock of Pfizer Inc. (parent of the Companies)

    At   December  31,  1994  and  1993,  there  were  970  and  811  employees,
respectively, participating in the  Plan, some of whom  had investments in  more
than one employee investment fund.

    All  matching contributions  are invested  by the  Trustee in  a fourth fund
designated the  "Company Common  Stock Fund,"  which consists  solely of  common
stock of Pfizer Inc.

    The  Plan's trust agreement  provides that any  portion of any  of the funds
may, pending its permanent investment or distribution, be invested in short-term
investments.

    ELIGIBILITY AND VESTING  -- An employee  is eligible to  participate in  the
Plan  if he or  she is a regular  employee of the Companies  and enrolls to make
contributions. Any  employee  who was  employed  on  February 1,  1990,  by  the
Companies,  and is eligible for participation,  may become a member effective on
the employee's next payroll date. Any employee hired after February 1, 1990, and
who is  eligible  to participate,  may  become a  member  as of  the  January  1
following  his or  her employment.  A member is  immediately vested  in the full
value of his or her accounts  (i.e., participant and employer contributions)  in
Funds A, B and C and the Company Common Stock Fund.

    WITHDRAWALS  --  A  participant  in  the  Plan  may  make  full  or  partial
withdrawals of funds subject to the provisions of the Plan.

    TERMINATION -- The Companies expect  to continue the Plan indefinitely,  but
necessarily reserve the right to amend, suspend or discontinue it in whole or in
part,  at  any time,  by  action of  the  Companies' Boards  of  Directors. Upon
termination of the  Plan, each member  affected thereby shall  receive the  full
value of his or her share in Fund A, B and C and his or her share in the Company
Common  Stock  Fund as  though he  or she  had retired  as of  the date  of such
termination. No part of the assets  in the investment fund established  pursuant
to the Plan will at any time revert to the Companies.

                                       5
<PAGE>
                     PFIZER SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN FOR
                       EMPLOYEES RESIDENT IN PUERTO RICO
                         NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                           DECEMBER 31, 1994 AND 1993

(2) SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
    INVESTMENT VALUATION -- The investment in the index fund of corporate common
stocks   represents  the  estimated  fair  value  of  the  number  of  units  of
participation held by the Plan in that fund. Pfizer Inc. common stock and  other
marketable securities are valued at the market price on the last business day of
the  year. Interest-bearing  deposits are  recorded at  cost, which approximates
fair value.

    SECURITY TRANSACTIONS -- Purchases and sales of securities are reflected  on
a  trade-date  basis.  Realized gains  and  losses  on sales  of  securities are
computed using an actual basis when the  entire position in a security is  sold,
or an average basis when less than the entire position in a security is sold.

    UNREALIZED  APPRECIATION (DEPRECIATION)  OF INVESTMENTS --  Amounts shown as
unrealized appreciation (depreciation) reflect changes between the cost and fair
value from the beginning of the year  or the date of the purchase, whichever  is
later, to the end of the year.

    REVENUE  RECOGNITION -- Dividend income is recorded on the ex-dividend date.
Income from other investments is recorded as earned.

    RECLASSIFICATIONS -- Certain amounts in  the 1993 financial statements  have
been reclassified to conform to the 1994 presentation.

(3) INCOME TAXES
    No  provision has been  made for Puerto  Rico income tax  in reliance upon a
determination letter issued  by the  Puerto Rico Department  of Treasury,  which
states that the Plan meets the requirements of Section 165(a) of the Puerto Rico
Income  Tax Act of 1954 and that the trust established thereunder is entitled to
exemption.

    All contributions made to  the Plan by  the Companies, including  before-tax
contributions   made  on  the  employee's  behalf   by  the  Companies  and  the
appreciation on  all funds  in the  employee's account  are not  taxable to  the
employee  under Puerto  Rico income  tax law while  these amounts  remain in the
Plan.

(4) ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS
    Except for  certain  investment management  fees  (Fund B),  all  costs  and
expenses of administering the Plan were borne by the Companies.

                                       6
<PAGE>
                     PFIZER SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN FOR
                       EMPLOYEES RESIDENT IN PUERTO RICO
                         NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                           DECEMBER 31, 1994 AND 1993

(5) UNREALIZED APPRECIATION (DEPRECIATION) OF INVESTMENTS
    The  change in the  amount of unrealized  appreciation (depreciation) was as
follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                         BALANCE
                                                                        -----------------------------------------
                                                                        DECEMBER 31,   DECEMBER 31,     CHANGE
                                                                            1994           1993      DURING 1994
                                                                        -------------  ------------  ------------
<S>                                                                     <C>            <C>           <C>
Company Common Stock Fund.............................................  $     892,497   $  541,555   $    350,942
Fund A................................................................        (59,218)      22,601        (81,819)
Fund B................................................................         34,097       44,405        (10,308)
Fund C................................................................        564,163      246,817        317,346
                                                                        -------------  ------------  ------------
                                                                        $   1,431,539   $  855,378   $    576,161
                                                                        -------------  ------------  ------------
                                                                        -------------  ------------  ------------

<CAPTION>

                                                                                         BALANCE
                                                                        -----------------------------------------
                                                                        DECEMBER 31,   DECEMBER 31,     CHANGE
                                                                            1993           1992      DURING 1993
                                                                        -------------  ------------  ------------
<S>                                                                     <C>            <C>           <C>
Company Common Stock Fund.............................................  $     541,555   $  596,698   $    (55,143)
Fund A................................................................         22,601       24,180         (1,579)
Fund B................................................................         44,405       29,253         15,152
Fund C................................................................        246,817      275,429        (28,612)
                                                                        -------------  ------------  ------------
                                                                        $     855,378   $  925,560   $    (70,182)
                                                                        -------------  ------------  ------------
                                                                        -------------  ------------  ------------
</TABLE>

(6) CONTRIBUTIONS
    The participating employees  and their employers  contributed the  following
amounts to the Plan:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                          1994
                                                                       -------------------------------------------
                                                                       PARTICIPATING  PARTICIPATING
                                                                         EMPLOYEES      EMPLOYERS        TOTAL
                                                                       -------------  -------------  -------------
<S>                                                                    <C>            <C>            <C>
Pfizer Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Puerto Rico Branch)....................  $   1,669,542  $     904,692  $   2,574,234
Pfizer Corporation (Puerto Rico Branch)..............................        399,009        188,344        587,353
                                                                       -------------  -------------  -------------
                                                                       $   2,068,551  $   1,093,036  $   3,161,587
                                                                       -------------  -------------  -------------
                                                                       -------------  -------------  -------------

<CAPTION>

                                                                                          1993
                                                                       -------------------------------------------
                                                                       PARTICIPATING  PARTICIPATING
                                                                         EMPLOYEES      EMPLOYERS        TOTAL
                                                                       -------------  -------------  -------------
<S>                                                                    <C>            <C>            <C>
Pfizer Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Puerto Rico Branch)....................  $   1,467,399  $     820,065  $   2,287,464
Pfizer Corporation (Puerto Rico Branch)..............................        315,740        175,236        490,976
                                                                       -------------  -------------  -------------
                                                                       $   1,783,139  $     995,301  $   2,778,440
                                                                       -------------  -------------  -------------
                                                                       -------------  -------------  -------------
</TABLE>

(7) RECONCILIATION WITH FORM 5500
    For  financial statement purposes, participant withdrawals and distributions
are recorded when paid rather than when processed and approved for payment.  For
the  purposes of Form 5500, such withdrawals and distributions are recorded when
processed and approved for payment; therefore, benefits payable to  participants
who  have requested withdrawals as of December 31, 1994 and 1993 of $208,824 and
$225,066, respectively, have been included  in benefit expense within Form  5500
for those years.

                                       7
<PAGE>
                                   SCHEDULE 1
                       PFIZER SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN
                     FOR EMPLOYEES RESIDENT IN PUERTO RICO
                      ASSETS HELD FOR INVESTMENT PURPOSES
                               DECEMBER 31, 1994

FUND A:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                    INTEREST RATE   MATURITY     COST      FAIR VALUE
                                                    -------------   --------  ----------  ------------
<S>                                                 <C>             <C>       <C>         <C>
U.S. GOVERNMENT SECURITIES
--------------------------------------------------
U.S. Treasury Notes...............................     6.875    %   10-31-96  $   50,594   $    49,328
U.S. Treasury Notes...............................     7.875         8-15-01     111,033       111,243
U.S. Treasury Notes...............................     8.500         8-15-95      49,844        50,453
                                                                              ----------  ------------
                                                                                 211,471       211,024
                                                                              ----------  ------------

OTHER MARKETABLE SECURITIES
--------------------------------------------------
Federal Home Loan Bank Medium Term Note...........     6.970        11-20-97      75,000        79,547
Federal National Mortgage Association.............     7.850         9-10-98      25,969        25,086
Federal National Mortgage Association.............     7.050        10-10-96      25,813        24,649
Federal National Mortgage Association.............     7.900         4-10-02      44,944        43,355
Federal National Mortgage Association.............     6.950         9-10-02      44,788        41,203
Federal National Mortgage Association.............     8.800         7-15-97      49,406        51,453
Federal National Mortgage Association.............     5.740         2-12-98      71,050        68,832
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Note.......     6.350         3-07-01      26,757        25,620
Federal Home Loan Bank Note.......................     9.150         3-25-97      43,168        42,984
Federal National Mortgage Association Note........     5.800        12-10-03       8,938         8,625
Federal Farm Credit Bank Bond.....................     6.050         4-21-03      29,822        26,325
                                                                              ----------  ------------
                                                                                 445,655       437,679
                                                                              ----------  ------------

<CAPTION>

CORPORATE DEBENTURES
--------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                 <C>             <C>       <C>         <C>
New Jersey Bell Telephone Bond....................     5.875         2-01-04      39,048        34,007
Dean Witter, Discover & Co. Bond..................     6.250         3-15-00      22,809        21,649
Dean Witter, Discover & Co. Bond..................     6.875         3-01-03      25,499        24,152
General Telephone Company of Florida Note.........     8.000         3-01-01      39,684        38,956
Merril Lynch Corp. Bond...........................     6.375         3-30-99      31,920        29,424
Merril Lynch Corp. Bond...........................     6.250         6-01-08      22,906        21,316
Lehman Brothers Holdings, Inc. Note...............     8.375         4-01-97     100,409        98,271
World Bank Medium Term Note.......................     9.190         6-23-98      42,807        41,371
Tennessee Valley Authority Bond...................     6.125         7-15-03      76,641        65,484
Tennessee Valley Authority Bond...................  zero coupon      7-15-03      87,554        79,790
Bell South Telephone Bond.........................     6.375         6-15-04      40,000        35,200
Georgia Power First Mortgage Bond.................     6.625          4-1-03      29,888        26,779
New Jersey Bell Telephone Bond....................     7.250          6-1-02       9,882         9,447
Exxon Corporation Bond............................     7.875         8-15-97      57,520        54,784
International Business Machines Bond..............     7.250         11-1-02      29,738        28,050
Shell Oil Company Bond............................     6.950        12-15-98      50,406        47,873
General Electric Credit Corp. Bond................     7.460         9-30-96      40,000        39,770
General Electric Credit Corp. Bond................     6.940        11-22-96      25,000        24,593
                                                                              ----------  ------------
                                                                                 771,711       720,916
                                                                              ----------  ------------
Banco Popular de Puerto Rico time deposit open
 account..........................................      5.71    %         --     107,407       107,407
                                                                              ----------  ------------
      Total of Fund A.............................                            $1,536,244   $ 1,477,026
                                                                              ----------  ------------
                                                                              ----------  ------------
</TABLE>

                                       8
<PAGE>
                             SCHEDULE 1 (CONTINUED)
                       PFIZER SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN
                     FOR EMPLOYEES RESIDENT IN PUERTO RICO
                      ASSETS HELD FOR INVESTMENT PURPOSES
                               DECEMBER 31, 1994
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
FUND B:

                                                      NUMBER OF     INTEREST
COMMON STOCK INDEX FUND                                 UNITS         RATE       COST      FAIR VALUE
--------------------------------------------------  -------------   --------  ----------  ------------
Northern Trust Collective Stock Index Fund........     7,021              --  $  230,456   $   264,552
<S>                                                 <C>             <C>       <C>         <C>

INTEREST-BEARING DEPOSITS
--------------------------------------------------
Northern Trust Short-Term Investment Fund.........        --              --         484           484
Banco Popular de Puerto Rico time deposit open
 account..........................................        --           5.71%       4,045         4,045
                                                                              ----------  ------------
      Total of Fund B.............................                            $  234,985   $   269,081
                                                                              ----------  ------------
                                                                              ----------  ------------

FUND C:

<CAPTION>

PFIZER INC. COMMON STOCK
--------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                 <C>             <C>       <C>         <C>
Pfizer Inc. (33,927 shares).......................        --              --  $2,056,665   $ 2,620,828
                                                                              ----------  ------------
                                                                              ----------  ------------

COMPANY COMMON STOCK FUND:

PFIZER INC. COMMON STOCK
--------------------------------------------------
Pfizer Inc. (38,207 shares).......................        --              --  $2,059,026   $ 2,951,523
INTEREST-BEARING DEPOSIT
--------------------------------------------------
Banco Popular de Puerto Rico time deposit open
 account..........................................        --           5.71%      47,863        47,863
                                                                              ----------  ------------
      Total Company Common Stock Fund.............                            $2,106,889   $ 2,999,386
                                                                              ----------  ------------
                                                                              ----------  ------------
</TABLE>

                                       9
<PAGE>
                                   SCHEDULE 2
                     PFIZER SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN FOR
                       EMPLOYEES RESIDENT IN PUERTO RICO
                            REPORTABLE TRANSACTIONS
                               DECEMBER 31, 1994

FUNDS A, B, C AND COMPANY COMMON STOCK FUND:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                              NUMBER OF     NUMBER OF
INVESTMENTS PURCHASED                                                       TRANSACTIONS      SHARES        COST
-------------------------------------------------------------------------  ---------------  ----------  -------------
<S>                                                                        <C>              <C>         <C>
Pfizer Inc. common stock.................................................            20        12,201   $     768,686
Interest-bearing deposits................................................           171            --       3,467,432
</TABLE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                NUMBER OF                                   REALIZED
INVESTMENTS DISPOSED                                          TRANSACTIONS        COST        FAIR VALUE      GAIN
-----------------------------------------------------------  ---------------  -------------  -------------  ---------
<S>                                                          <C>              <C>            <C>            <C>
Interest-bearing deposits..................................           191     $   3,396,517  $   3,396,517         --
</TABLE>

                                       10
<PAGE>
                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

To the Administrative Committee
Pfizer Savings and Investment Plan for
Employees Resident in Puerto Rico:

    We have audited the accompanying statements of net assets available for plan
benefits  of the  Pfizer Savings and  Investment Plan for  Employees Resident in
Puerto Rico  (the Plan)  as  of December  31, 1994  and  1993, and  the  related
statements  of changes in net  assets available for plan  benefits for the years
then ended.  These financial  statements are  the responsibility  of the  Plan's
management.  Our  responsibility is  to express  an  opinion on  these financial
statements based on our audits.

    We conducted  our  audits in  accordance  with generally  accepted  auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence  supporting
the  amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the  accounting  principles used  and  significant estimates  made  by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

    In our opinion, the financial  statements referred to above present  fairly,
in all material respects, the net assets available for plan benefits of the Plan
as  of December 31, 1994  and 1993, and the changes  in net assets available for
plan benefits for the  years then ended, in  conformity with generally  accepted
accounting principles.

    Our audits were performed for the purpose of forming an opinion on the basic
financial  statements taken as a whole. The supplemental schedules of (1) assets
held for investment purposes and (2)  reportable transactions, as of or for  the
year  ended  December 31,  1994,  are presented  for  the purpose  of additional
analysis and are not a required part  of the basic financial statements but  are
supplementary  information  required  by  the Department  of  Labor's  Rules and
Regulations for Reporting  and Disclosure under  the Employee Retirement  Income
Security  Act of  1974. The  Fund Information  in the  statements of  net assets
available for  plan  benefits  and  the statements  of  changes  in  net  assets
available  for plan  benefits is presented  for purposes  of additional analysis
rather than to present the net assets available for plan benefits and changes in
net assets available for plan benefits of each Fund. The supplemental  schedules
and  Fund Information have been subjected  to the auditing procedures applied in
the audits of  the basic financial  statements and, in  our opinion, are  fairly
stated  in all material  respects in relation to  the basic financial statements
taken as a whole.

                                          /s/ KPMG PEAT MARWICK LLP
                                          KPMG Peat Marwick LLP

February 10, 1995

Stamp No. 1252929 of the Puerto Rico
Society of Certified Public Accountants was
affixed to the record copy of this report.

                                       11
<PAGE>
                                   SIGNATURES

    THE  PLAN.  Pursuant to  the requirements of the  Securities Exchange Act of
1934, the members of the Savings and Investment Plan Committee have duly  caused
this  annual report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly
authorized.

                                          Pfizer Savings and Investment Plan for
                                           Employees Resident in Puerto Rico

                                          By:        /s/ NATALE RICCIARDI

                                          --------------------------------------
                                                     Natale Ricciardi
                                                  VICE PRESIDENT, PFIZER
                                                  PHARMACEUTICALS, INC.
                                            CHAIR, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN
                                                        COMMITTEE

Date: March 23, 1995

                                       12
<PAGE>
                                                                      EXHIBIT 23
                        CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

To the Administrative Committee
Pfizer Savings and Investment Plan for
Employees Resident in Puerto Rico:

    We  consent to incorporation  by reference in  the Registration Statement on
Form S-8  dated  November 18,  1991  (File No.  33-44053)  of our  report  dated
February  10, 1995, relating to the statements  of net assets available for plan
benefits of the  Pfizer Savings and  Investment Plan for  Employees Resident  in
Puerto  Rico as  of December 31,  1994 and  1993, and the  related statements of
changes in net  assets available  for plan benefits  for the  years then  ended,
which  report appears in the December 31, 1994 annual report on Form 11-K of the
Pfizer Savings and Investment Plan for Employees Resident in Puerto Rico.

                                          /s/ KPMG PEAT MARWICK LLP
                                          KPMG Peat Marwick LLP

San Juan, Puerto Rico
March 23, 1995

                                       13
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21
<SEQUENCE>9
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 21
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
                                                                      EXHIBIT 21

                         SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

    The  following  is a  list of  subsidiaries of  the Company  as of  the date
hereof, omitting certain subsidiaries  which, considered in  the aggregate as  a
single subsidiary, would not constitute a significant subsidiary.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                   PERCENTAGE OF
                                                                                                       VOTING
                                                                                                  SECURITIES OWNED
                                                                                                         BY
           NAME                                                             WHERE INCORPORATED    IMMEDIATE PARENT
           --------------------------------------------------------------  --------------------  ------------------
<C>        <S>                                                             <C>                   <C>
       a)  Subsidiaries of Pfizer Inc.:
           Radiologic Sciences, Inc......................................  California                 100
           Shiley Incorporated...........................................  California                 100
           Valleylab Inc.................................................  Colorado                   100
           Dart Acquisition Corporation..................................  Delaware                   100
           Disease Management Sciences Inc...............................  Delaware                   100
           Flavor Technology Corporation.................................  Delaware                   100
           Health Care Ventures, Inc.....................................  Delaware                   100
           Howmedica Inc.................................................  Delaware                   100
           Pfizer Diagnostic Products International Ltd..................  Delaware                   100
           Pfizer Enterprises Inc........................................  Delaware                   100
           Pfizer H.C.P. Corporation.....................................  New York                   100
           Pfizer Health Sciences, Inc...................................  Delaware                   100
           Pfizer Medical Systems, Inc...................................  Delaware                   100
           Pfizer Pharmaceuticals, Inc...................................  Delaware                   100
           Pfizer Pigments Inc...........................................  Delaware                   100
           Site Realty, Inc..............................................  Delaware                   100
           Strato/Infusaid Inc...........................................  Massachusetts              100
           American Medical Systems, Inc.................................  Minnesota                  100
           Schneider (USA) Inc...........................................  Minnesota                  100
           Adforce Inc...................................................  New York                   100
           Quigley Company Inc...........................................  New York                   100
           Pfizer International Inc......................................  New York                   100
           Howmedica G.m.b.H.............................................  Austria                    100
           Cadsand Medica N.V............................................  Belgium                    100
           Laboratorios Pfizer Ltd.......................................  Brazil                     100
           176864 Canada Inc.............................................  Canada                     100
           Orsim, S.A....................................................  France                     100
           Van Cadsand Beheer B.V........................................  Netherlands                100
           Pfizer Trading Corp...........................................  Taiwan                     100

      (b)  Subsidiaries of Pfizer International Inc. (a subsidiary of
            Pfizer Inc.):
           Pfizer Overseas Inc...........................................  Delaware                   100
           Pfizer Products Corporation...................................  Delaware                   100
           Pfizer Corporation Austria G.m.b.H............................  Austria                    100
           Pfizer S.A....................................................  Belgium                    100
           Pfizer European Service Center N.V............................  Belgium                     97.5  (1)
<FN>
------------------------
(1)  2.5% owned by Pfizer Research and Development Company N.V./S.A.
</TABLE>

                                                               December 31, 1994
<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                   PERCENTAGE OF
                                                                                                       VOTING
                                                                                                  SECURITIES OWNED
                                                                                                         BY
           NAME                                                             WHERE INCORPORATED    IMMEDIATE PARENT
           --------------------------------------------------------------  --------------------  ------------------
<C>        <S>                                                             <C>                   <C>
      (b)  Subsidiaries of Pfizer International Inc. (a
            subsidiary of Pfizer Inc.): -- (Continued)
           The Kodiak Company Ltd............................  Bermuda                100
           Pfizer Holding Ltd................................  Canada                 100
           Roerig S.A........................................  Chile                  100
           Pfizer A/S........................................  Denmark                100
           Pfizer Oy.........................................  Finland                100
           Pfizer Biogal L.L.C...............................  Hungary                 71.35
           Pfizer Sales Company Limited......................  Ireland                100
           Pfizer Chemical Corp. Ltd.........................  Isle of Man            100
           Compania Distribuidora Del Centro, S.A. de C.V....  Mexico                 100
           Pfizer S.A. de C.V................................  Mexico                 100
           Laboratoires Pfizer S.A...........................  Morocco                 98
           Pfizer Specialties Limited........................  Nigeria                100
           Pfizer Pharmaceuticals Production Corporation.....  Panama                 100
           Pfizer S.G.P.S. Limitada..........................  Portugal               100
           Bioquimica Industrial Espanola, S.A. -- BINESA....  Spain                  100
           Pfizer S.A........................................  Spain                  100
           Pfizer A.G........................................  Switzerland            100
           Pfizer Group Limited..............................  United Kingdom         100

      (c)  Subsidiaries of Pfizer Pharmaceuticals Production
            Corporation (a subsidiary of Pfizer International
            Inc.):
           Pfizer Research and Development Company             Belgium                100   (1)
            N.V./S.A.........................................
           Kirchimie Ltee....................................  Canada                 100
           Pfizer C. & G. Inc................................  Canada                  86.8 (2)
           Pfizer Pension Trustees (Ireland) Limited.........  Ireland                100
           Pfizer International Bank Europe..................  Ireland                 82   (3)
           Pfizer Service Company Ireland....................  Ireland                100
           Pfizer Ringaskiddy Production Company.............  Isle of Man            100
           Roerig Farmaceutici Italiana S.r.1................  Italy                  100
           Pfizer (N.Z.) Ltd.................................  New Zealand            100
           Pfizer Corporation................................  Panama                 100
<FN>
------------------------
(1)  Includes 5% owned by Pfizer International Inc.

(2)  13.2% owned by Kirchimie Ltee.

(3)  18% owned by Pfizer Research and Development Company N.V./S.A.
</TABLE>

                                       2
<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                                 PERCENTAGE OF VOTING
                                                                                                 SECURITIES OWNED BY
           NAME                                                             WHERE INCORPORATED     IMMEDIATE PARENT
           ---------------------------------------------------------------  ------------------  ----------------------
<C>        <S>                                                              <C>                 <C>
      (d)  Subsidiaries of Pfizer Corporation (a subsidiary of Pfizer
            Pharmaceuticals Production Corporation):
           Pfizer Limitada................................................  Angola                         100
           Pficonprod Pty. Limited........................................  Australia                      100(1)
           Pfizer Agricare Pty. Ltd.......................................  Australia                      100
           Pfizer Pty. Ltd................................................  Australia                      100
           Pfizer S.A.....................................................  Colombia                       100
           Pfizer S.A.....................................................  Costa Rica                     100
           Pfizer C.A.....................................................  Ecuador                        100
           Pfizer Egypt S.A.E.............................................  Egypt                           85
           Pfizer Limited.................................................  Ghana                           50
           Pfizer Hellas, A.E.............................................  Greece                         100
           Pfizer Limited.................................................  India                           40
           PT Pfizer Indonesia............................................  Indonesia                       80(2)
           Pfizer Kabushiki Kaisha........................................  Japan                          100
           Pfizer Laboratories Limited (Kenya)............................  Kenya                          100
           Pfizer (Malaysia) Sendirian Berhad.............................  Malaysia                       100
           Pfizer Limitada................................................  Mozambique                     100
           Pfizer (Namibia) (Proprietary) Limited.........................  Namibia                        100
           Pfizer Laboratories Limited....................................  New Zealand                    100
           Livestock Feeds PLC............................................  Nigeria                         60
           Pfizer Products PLC............................................  Nigeria                         60
           Pfizer A/S.....................................................  Norway                         100
           Pfizer Laboratories Limited....................................  Pakistan                      76.3
           Pfizer International Corporation S.A...........................  Panama                         100
           Harmag Inc.....................................................  Panama                         100
           Corporation Farmaceutica S.A. -- COFASA........................  Peru                           100
           Pfizer Inc.....................................................  Philippines                    100
           Pfizer Private Limited.........................................  Singapore                      100
           Pfizer Laboratories (Proprietary) Limited......................  South Africa                   100
           Pfizer Korea Limited...........................................  South Korea                     50
           Pfizer Limited.................................................  South Korea                    100
           Pfizer A.B.....................................................  Sweden                         100
           Roerig A.B.....................................................  Sweden                         100
           Pfizer Limited.................................................  Taiwan                         100
           Pfizer Limited.................................................  Tanzania                       100
           Pfizer Limited.................................................  Thailand                       100
           Pfizer Ilaclari A.S............................................  Turkey                         100
           Pfizer Limited.................................................  Uganda                         100
           Laboratorios Pfizer de Venezuela, S.A..........................  Venezuela                      100
           Pfizer Limited.................................................  Zambia                         100
<FN>
------------------------
(1)  Includes  24.7% of the voting securities owned by subsidiaries of Howmedica
     Inc., a subsidiary of Pfizer Inc.

(2)  Includes 11.77% of the voting securities owned by Heinrich Mack Nachf.
</TABLE>

                                       3
<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                        PERCENTAGE OF VOTING
                                                                                         SECURITIES OWNED BY
           NAME                                               WHERE INCORPORATED          IMMEDIATE PARENT
           -------------------------------------------------  ------------------  ---------------------------------
<C>        <S>                                                <C>                 <C>
      (e)  Subsidiaries of Pfizer Research and Development
            Company N.V./S.A. (a subsidiary of Pfizer
            Pharmaceuticals Production Corporation):
           Pfizer S.A.......................................  France                             100
           Pfizer Holding Und Verwaltungs G.m.b.H...........  Germany                            95
           Pfizer Italiana S.p.A............................  Italy                              100
           Pfizer Pharmaceuticals Inc.......................  Japan                              100
           Pfizer B.V.......................................  Netherlands                        100
           Howmedica Iberica S.A............................  Spain                             87.8
           Rovi Farma S.A...................................  Spain                              50
           Schneider (Europe) A.G...........................  Switzerland                        100

      (f)  Miscelleaneous Subsidiaries:
           Shiley International, Inc........................  California          Shiley Incorporated 100%
           Schneider (USA) Pittsburgh, Inc..................  Delaware            Schneider (USA) Inc. 100%
           Angiomedics Inc..................................  Minnesota           Schneider (USA) Inc. 100%
           Pfizer S.A.C.I...................................  Argentina           Pfizer International Corporation
                                                                                   S.A. 100%
           Valleylab Australia Pty. Ltd.....................  Australia           Valleylab Inc. 100%
           Pfizer Med-Inform Beratungs G.m.b.H..............  Austria             Pfizer Corporation Austria
                                                                                   G.m.b.H. 100%
           Pfizer Hospital Products (Belgium) N.V...........  Belgium             Pfizer Hospital Products
                                                                                   (Netherlands) B.V. 100%
           Rogar/STB Inc....................................  Canada              Pfizer Canada Inc. 100%
           Pfizer Canada Inc................................  Canada              Pfizer Holding Ltd. 100%
           Pfizer s.r.o.....................................  Czech Republic      Pfizer Products Corporation 100%
           Laboratoire Beral, S.A...........................  France              Pfizer S.A. 100%
           C.A.L. Pfizer S.C.A. (1).........................  France              Pfizer S.A. 100%
           Howmedica France S.C.A. (1)......................  France              Pfizer S.A. 100%
           Benoist Girard & Cie S.C.A. (1)..................  France              Pfizer S.A. 100%
           Forster & Hug (KG) (1)...........................  Germany             Pfizer G.m.b.H. 100%
           Heinrich Mack Nachf. (1).........................  Germany             Pfizer G.m.b.H. 100%
           Pfizer G.m.b.H...................................  Germany             Pfizer Holding Und Verwaltungs
                                                                                   G.m.b.H. 100%
           Taylor Kosmetik G.m.b.H..........................  Germany             Pfizer Holding Und Verwaltungs
                                                                                   G.m.b.H. 100%
           Hilekes G.m.b.H..................................  Germany             Howmedica G.m.b.H. 100%
           Pfizer LLC.......................................  Hungary             Pfizer Products Corporation 100%
           Dumex Limited....................................  India               Pfizer Limited (India) 100%
<FN>
------------------------
(1)  Partnership.
</TABLE>

                                       4
<PAGE>

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                        PERCENTAGE OF VOTING
                                                                                        SECURITIES OWNED BY
           NAME                                           WHERE INCORPORATED              IMMEDIATE PARENT
           --------------------------------------------  ---------------------  ------------------------------------
<C>        <S>                                           <C>                    <C>
      (f)  Miscellaneous Subsidiaries: (Continued)
           Duchem Laboratories Limited.................  India                  Pfizer Limited (India) 100%
           SudFarma S.r.1..............................  Italy                  Roerig Farmaceutici Italiana S.r.1.
                                                                                 90%; Pfizer Italiana S.p.A. 10%
           Saninvest S.r.1.............................  Italy                  Roerig Farmaceutici Italiana S.r.1.
                                                                                 100%
           Restiva Italiana S.p.A......................  Italy                  Saninvest S.r.1. 100%
           Schneider Japan K.K.........................  Japan                  Pfizer Pharmaceuticals Inc. (Japan)
                                                                                 100%
           Pfizer Oral Care Inc........................  Japan                  Pfizer Pharmaceuticals Inc. (Japan)
                                                                                 100%
           Pfizer Shoji Co., Ltd.......................  Japan                  Pfizer Pharmaceuticals Inc. (Japan)
                                                                                 100%
           Pfizer S.A..................................  Morocco                Pfizer S.A. 56%; Laboratoire Beral,
                                                                                 S.A. 44%
           Pfizer Hospital Products (Netherlands)
            B.V........................................  Netherlands            Shiley International, Inc. 100%
           Roerig B.V..................................  Netherlands            Pfizer B.V. 100%
           Cadsand Medica B.V..........................  Netherlands            Van Cadsand Beheer B.V. 100%
           Pfizer Pharmaceuticals Ltd..................  People's Republic of   Pfizer Enterprises Inc. 67.1%
                                                          China
           Laboratorios Pfizer S.A.....................  Portugal               Pfizer S.G.P.S. Limitada 100%
           Pfizer Hospital Products A.B................  Sweden                 Shiley International, Inc. 100%
           AMS Medinvent S.A...........................  Switzerland            Nilo Holdings, S.A. 100%
           Nilo Holdings, S.A..........................  Switzerland            Schneider (Europe) A.G. 100%
           T.C.P. Limited..............................  United Kingdom         Unicliffe Limited 100%
           Coty Limited................................  United Kingdom         Pfizer Limited 100%
           Pfizer Limited..............................  United Kingdom         Pfizer Group Limited 100%
           Unicliffe Limited...........................  United Kingdom         Pfizer Limited 100%
</TABLE>

                                       5
<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                        PERCENTAGE OF VOTING
                                                                                        SECURITIES OWNED BY
           NAME                                           WHERE INCORPORATED              IMMEDIATE PARENT
           --------------------------------------------  ---------------------  ------------------------------------
<C>        <S>                                           <C>                    <C>
      (f)  Miscellaneous Subsidiaries: (Continued)
           Pfizer Pension Trustees Ltd.................  United Kingdom         Pfizer Limited 100%
           Charwell Pharmaceuticals Limited............  United Kingdom         Unicliffe Limited 100%
           The Stoppers Limited........................  United Kingdom         Charwell Pharmaceuticals Limited
                                                                                 100%
           Biomedical Sensors Ltd......................  United Kingdom         Biomedical Sensors (Holdings) Ltd.
                                                                                 100%
           Biomedical Sensors (Holdings) Ltd...........  United Kingdom         Howmedica International Inc. 100%
           Measureaim Ltd..............................  United Kingdom         Howmedica International Limited 100%
           Howmedica International Limited.............  United Kingdom         Pfizer Group Limited 100%
           Shiley Ltd..................................  United Kingdom         Howmedica International Limited 100%
           Pfizer Hospital Products, Ltd...............  United Kingdom         Howmedica International Limited 100%
           Pfizer Hospital Products Pension Trustees,
            Ltd........................................  United Kingdom         Pfizer Hospital Products, Ltd.
                                                                                 (U.K.) 100%
           Pfizer Bioquimicos S.A......................  Venezuela              Laboratorios Pfizer de Venezuela,
                                                                                 S.A. 100%
           Pfizer S.A..................................  Venezuela              Laboratorios Pfizer de Venezuela,
                                                                                 S.A. 100%

      (g)  Subsidiaries of Howmedica Inc. (a subsidiary
            of Pfizer Inc.):
           Orthopedic Sciences Inc.....................  Delaware               100
           Howmedica Investments Pty. Ltd..............  Australia              100
           S.D. Investments Pty. Ltd...................  Australia              100
           Pfizer Hospital Products Ltd................  Canada                 100
           Howmedica G.m.b.H...........................  Germany                100(1)
           Howmedica International Inc.................  Panama                 100
           Jaquet Orthopedie S.A.......................  Switzerland            100
<FN>
------------------------
(1)  Includes 32.4% of the voting  securities owned by Howmedica  International,
     Inc. and 2.7% of the voting securities owned by Shiley International, Inc.
</TABLE>

                                       6
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23
<SEQUENCE>10
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 23
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
                                                                      EXHIBIT 23

         REPORT AND CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

To the Shareholders and Board of Directors of
  PFIZER INC.:

    Under  date of  February 23, 1995,  we reported on  the consolidated balance
sheet of Pfizer Inc. and subsidiary companies as of December 31, 1994, 1993  and
1992 and the related consolidated statements of income, shareholders' equity and
cash  flows for the years then ended, as  contained in the 1994 Annual Report to
Shareholders. These consolidated financial statements and our report thereon are
incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year  1994.
The  audits  referred to  in our  report  dated February  23, 1995  included the
related financial statement schedule as of December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992  and
for   the  years   then  ended.  This   financial  statement   schedule  is  the
responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express  an
opinion  on  this  financial statement  schedule  based  on our  audits.  In our
opinion, such financial statement schedule,  when considered in relation to  the
basic  consolidated financial statements  taken as a  whole, presents fairly, in
all material respects, the information set forth therein.

    We consent to  the use of  our reports included  and incorporated herein  by
reference.

    We  also consent  to the  incorporation by reference  of our  reports in the
Prospectus dated December 27, 1972, as supplemented February 6, 1973, of  Pfizer
Inc., filed under the Securities Act of 1933 on Registration Statement Form S-16
dated  October 27, 1972 (File No. 2-46157),  as amended, in the Prospectus dated
June 14, 1979, of Pfizer Inc., in the Registration Statement on Form S-16  dated
April  26, 1979 (File No. 2-64610), as amended, in the Registration Statement on
Form S-15  dated  December 13,  1982  (File No.  2-80884),  as amended,  in  the
Registration Statement on Form S-8 dated October 27, 1983 (File No. 2-87473), as
amended,  in the Registration Statement  on Form S-8 dated  March 22, 1990 (File
No. 33-34139), in the Registration Statement on Form S-8 dated January 24,  1991
(File  No. 33-38708), in the  Registration Statement on Form  S-3 dated June 26,
1991 (File No. 33-41367), as amended, in the Registration Statement on Form  S-8
dated  November 18, 1991  (File No. 33-44053), in  the Registration Statement on
Form S-3 dated May 27, 1993  (File No. 33-49629), in the Registration  Statement
on  Form  S-8  dated May  27,  1993  (File No.  33-49631),  in  the Registration
Statement on  Form  S-8  dated  May  19,  1994,  (File  No.  33-53713),  in  the
Registration Statement on Form S-8 dated October 5, 1994 (File No. 33-55771), in
the  Registration  Statement  on Form  S-3  dated  November 14,  1994  (File No.
33-56435), in the  Registration Statement on  Form S-8 dated  December 20,  1994
(File No. 33-56979) and in the Registration Statement on Form S-4 dated February
14, 1995 (File No. 33-57709).

                                          /s/ KPMG PEAT MARWICK LLP
                                          KPMG Peat Marwick LLP

New York, New York
March 23, 1995
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27
<SEQUENCE>11
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 27
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>

<PAGE>
<ARTICLE> 5
<LEGEND>
THIS SCHEDULE CONTAINS SUMMARY FINANCIAL INFORMATION EXTRACTED FROM THE PFIZER
INC. AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET AND CONDENSED STATEMENT
OF INCOME FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1994 AND IS QUALIFIED IN ITS ENTIRETY
BY REFERENCE TO SUCH FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
</LEGEND>
<MULTIPLIER> 1,000,000
       
<S>                             <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                   12-MOS
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                          DEC-31-1994
<PERIOD-END>                               DEC-31-1994
<CASH>                                           1,459
<SECURITIES>                                       560
<RECEIVABLES>                                    1,709
<ALLOWANCES>                                      (44)
<INVENTORY>                                      1,265
<CURRENT-ASSETS>                                 5,788
<PP&E>                                           4,993
<DEPRECIATION>                                 (1,920)
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                                  11,099
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>                            4,826
<BONDS>                                            604
<COMMON>                                            34
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                                0
<PREFERRED>                                          0
<OTHER-SE>                                       4,290
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>                    11,099
<SALES>                                          8,281
<TOTAL-REVENUES>                                 8,281
<CGS>                                            1,919
<TOTAL-COSTS>                                    1,919
<OTHER-EXPENSES>                                 4,371
<LOSS-PROVISION>                                    19
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                                 127
<INCOME-PRETAX>                                  1,862
<INCOME-TAX>                                       559
<INCOME-CONTINUING>                              1,298
<DISCONTINUED>                                       0
<EXTRAORDINARY>                                      0
<CHANGES>                                            0
<NET-INCOME>                                     1,298
<EPS-PRIMARY>                                     4.19
<EPS-DILUTED>                                     4.18
        

</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
