-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 IAj/Vq1+HZS8a4UlzmZ7Ed2JuZaN0f6Od8c1yKJ5RdV5ANGSGrVOHA5vkMP1YOew
 5/6q3o1ht7gmm2cqC57Kfw==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0000912057-96-005586.txt : 19960401
<SEC-HEADER>0000912057-96-005586.hdr.sgml : 19960401
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000912057-96-005586
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		10
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	19951231
FILED AS OF DATE:		19960329
SROS:			AMEX

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			PFIZER INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000078003
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS [2834]
		IRS NUMBER:				135315170
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-03619
		FILM NUMBER:		96541471

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		235 E 42ND ST
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10017
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2125732323

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		235 E 42ND ST
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10017

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	PFIZER CHARLES & CO INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19710908
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<DESCRIPTION>10-K
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                            ------------------------
                                   FORM 10-K
                                ---------------
 
<TABLE>
<S>        <C>
           (MARK ONE)
/X/        ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES
           EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [FEE REQUIRED]
                           FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995
/ /        TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES
           EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]
</TABLE>
 
            FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM            TO
                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-3619
                                  PFIZER INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
<TABLE>
<S>                                   <C>
              DELAWARE                      13-5315170
  (State or other jurisdiction of        (I.R.S. Employer
   incorporation or organization)     Identification Number)
        235 East 42nd Street
         New York, New York                   10017
  (Address of principal executive           (Zip Code)
              offices)
</TABLE>
 
                                 (212) 573-2323
              (Registrant's telephone number including area code)
                            ------------------------
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                             NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE
               TITLE OF EACH CLASS                            ON WHICH REGISTERED
<S>                                                 <C>
Common Stock, $.05 par value                                New York Stock Exchange
Preferred Stock Purchase Rights                             New York Stock Exchange
4% Convertible Subordinated Debentures Due 1997             New York Stock Exchange
</TABLE>
 
            SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT:
                                      NONE
                            ------------------------
 
    Indicate  by check  mark whether  the registrant  (1) has  filed all reports
required to be filed by  Section 13 or 15(d) of  the Securities Exchange Act  of
1934  during  the preceding  12  months (or  for  such shorter  period  that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to  such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.
 
                              Yes __X__ No ______
 
    Indicate  by check mark if disclosure  of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in the definitive proxy or information statement
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.  /X/
 
        The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of
the registrant computed by reference to the closing price at which the stock was
sold as of February 26, 1996 was approximately $42.1 billion.
 
        The number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant's classes  of
common  stock as of February  26, 1996 was: 639,181,479  shares of common stock,
all of one class.
 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 
Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended
 December 31, 1995                                            Parts I, II and IV
Proxy Statement dated March 19, 1996                          Part III
 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<PAGE>
                               TABLE OF CONTENTS
                                     PART I
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
ITEM                                                                      PAGE
- -----                                                                     ----
<C>    <S>                                                                <C>
   1.  Business.........................................................     2
       General..........................................................     2
       Comparative Segment and Geographic Data..........................     2
       Health Care......................................................     2
       Animal Health....................................................     5
       Consumer Health Care.............................................     5
       Discontinued Operations: Food Science Business...................     6
       Financial Subsidiaries...........................................     6
       International Operations.........................................     6
       Tax Matters......................................................     7
       Patents and Research.............................................     8
       Employees........................................................     8
       Regulation.......................................................     8
       Raw Materials and Energy.........................................     9
       Environment......................................................     9
   2.  Properties.......................................................    10
   3.  Legal Proceedings................................................    12
   4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders..............    16
  4a.  Executive Officers of the Company................................    17
 
                                   PART II
 
   5.  Market for the Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder
        Matters.........................................................    22
   6.  Selected Financial Data..........................................    22
   7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
        Results of Operations...........................................    22
   8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data......................    22
   9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
        Financial Disclosure............................................    22
 
                                   PART III
 
  10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant...............    22
  11.  Executive Compensation...........................................    23
  12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management...    23
  13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions...................    23
 
                                   PART IV
 
  14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form
        8-K.............................................................    23
       Signatures.......................................................    25
       Financial Statement Schedule
       Exhibit 11
       Exhibit 12
       Exhibit 23
       Exhibit 99
</TABLE>
<PAGE>
                                     PART I
 
ITEM 1. BUSINESS
 
GENERAL
 
    Pfizer  Inc. (the "Company") is a research-based global health care company.
The   Company   discovers,   develops,   manufactures   and   sells   innovative
technology-intensive  products in  three business  segments: Health  Care, which
includes a  broad range  of prescription  pharmaceuticals, orthopedic  implants,
medical  devices and  surgical equipment;  Animal Health,  which includes animal
health products and feed supplements; and Consumer Health Care, which includes a
variety of nonprescription drugs and  personal care products. Additionally,  the
Company's  Financial Subsidiaries  include a banking  operation in  Europe and a
small captive insurance operation.
 
COMPARATIVE SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC DATA
 
    Comparative segment information and geographic data as of and for the  years
ended  December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993 are set forth on pages 40 and 41, and in
the Note "Financial Subsidiaries" on page 47 and a description of the  Company's
business  segments is  set forth on  page 58  of the Company's  Annual Report to
Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 1995 and are incorporated herein by
reference.
 
HEALTH CARE
 
    The Company's  Health  Care business  is  comprised of  pharmaceuticals  and
hospital  products.  The  Company  competes  with  numerous  other  health  care
companies in  the discovery  and development  of new,  technologically  advanced
pharmaceutical  and hospital  products; in  seeking use  of its  products by the
medical profession; and in the sale of its product lines to wholesale and retail
outlets, public and  private hospitals, managed  care organizations,  government
and the medical profession.
 
    The  principal  methods  of  competition  in  health  care  vary  by product
category. There are a significant number of innovative companies in the field. A
critical factor in most markets in which the Company competes is the ability  to
offer  technological  advances over  competitive  products. The  productivity of
scientific discovery and  clinical development efforts  is central to  long-term
operational  success since there are many companies that specialize in marketing
products that no longer  have patent or  regulatory protection. Other  important
factors   in  these  markets  include  the  ability  to  transfer  knowledge  of
technological  advances  to  the  medical  community,  product  quality,  prompt
delivery and price.
 
    The United States pharmaceutical marketplace has in recent years experienced
intensified  price  competition,  brought about  by  a range  of  market forces,
including: new  product development,  increased generic  competition, growth  of
managed care organizations and legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to
provide  rebates  and  discounts  to  government  agencies.  Similar competitive
forces, in varying degrees, have also been present in various other countries in
which the Company operates.
 
    Prescription pharmaceutical and hospital products, both in the United States
and abroad, are  promoted directly to  physicians, as  well as to  a variety  of
managed   care  organizations.   The  Company   conducts  corporate  advertising
nationally, using both print and television media, to inform the general  public
about the Company and its innovative medical research. Certain specific products
have   also   been  advertised   directly  to   consumers  beginning   in  1995.
Pharmaceutical products are  distributed in  large part  to wholesalers,  retail
outlets, hospitals, clinics, government agencies and managed care organizations.
Hospital  products are generally  sold directly to  medical institutions and, in
some cases, through distributors and surgical supply dealers.
 
                                       2
<PAGE>
    PHARMACEUTICALS
 
    The Company's worldwide pharmaceutical  products are comprised primarily  of
drugs  which fall into the following major therapeutic classes: cardiovasculars,
anti-infectives,  central   nervous  system   agents,  anti-inflammatories   and
antidiabetes  agents. In 1995, pharmaceuticals  contributed 71% of the Company's
consolidated net sales, as compared to 73% in 1994 and 72% in 1993. Increases in
both United  States  and  international pharmaceutical  revenues  in  1995  were
principally  the  result of  strong  sales of  products  launched in  the 1990s,
including Norvasc (amlodipine besylate), Cardura (doxazosin mesylate),  Diflucan
(fluconazole),  Zithromax (azithromycin),  Zoloft (sertraline)  and Glucotrol XL
(glipizide GITS).
 
    Cardiovascular products are the  Company's largest therapeutic product  line
accounting  for 30% of the Company's 1995  consolidated net sales as compared to
30% and 28% in 1994 and 1993, respectively. Sales of these products grew 23%  in
1995,  including a 65% increase in sales of Norvasc, a long-lasting (once-a-day)
calcium channel blocker for hypertension and  angina, as well as a 32%  increase
in  sales of Cardura, an  alpha blocker for hypertension.  Sales of Procardia XL
(nifedipine GITS),  a  long-lasting  (once-a-day) calcium  channel  blocker  for
hypertension  and  angina, decreased  by  4% in  1995.  A supplemental  New Drug
Application for  the  use  of  Cardura in  the  treatment  of  benign  prostatic
hyperplasia  ("BPH"), an enlargement of the  prostate gland, was approved by the
United States Food and  Drug Administration ("FDA") in  February 1995. Usage  of
Cardura for this indication contributed to its increase in sales for the year.
 
    Worldwide  anti-infective sales increased 23% in 1995 mainly on the strength
of  Diflucan  and   Zithromax.  U.S.   anti-infective  sales   grew  24%   while
international  sales rose by  22%. Diflucan, an  anti-fungal agent, is indicated
for use in a variety of fungal infections including certain types which  afflict
AIDS  and  immunosuppressed  cancer  patients. The  product  also  received U.S.
approval for the indication  of vaginal candidiasis in  1994. Diflucan posted  a
sales  increase of 22% in 1995 and Zithromax, an oral antibiotic, posted a sales
increase of 97%. Part of the growth  of Zithromax in the U.S. can be  attributed
to  the October 1995 approval  from the FDA for  pediatric use of Zithromax oral
suspension for  acute otitis  media and  streptococcal  pharnygitis/tonsillitis.
Total  anti-infective sales accounted for 21% of the Company's consolidated 1995
net sales, compared to 22% in 1994 and 23% in 1993.
 
    U.S. sales  of Pfizer's  central nervous  system agents  rose 41%  in  1995,
reflecting  increased sales of Zoloft, an anti-depressant introduced in the U.S.
in 1992. In August 1995, the Company received an approvable letter from the  FDA
for  an  indication of  obsessive compulsive  disorder ("OCD").  Central nervous
system agents grew to 11% of the Company's consolidated 1995 net sales from  10%
in 1994 and 7% in 1993.
 
    In  September 1995, the  Company received an approvable  letter from the FDA
for pediatric use  of the  antihistamine, Zyrtec (cetirizine  HCl). In  December
1995,  the  FDA  granted marketing  clearance  to  Zyrtec for  the  treatment of
seasonal and perennial  allergic rhinitis,  and chronic  urticaria. Zyrtec,  the
most  widely prescribed antihistamine in Europe, is currently marketed worldwide
by the Belgian company, UCB  S.A., and is licensed to  the Company for the  U.S.
and  Canada. Pfizer  and UCB  Pharma, a subsidiary  of UCB  S.A., will copromote
Zyrtec in the U.S. This  product was launched in Canada  in 1991 under the  name
Reactine. It was launched in the United States in February 1996.
 
    In  February 1996, the Company  acquired Bioindustria Farmaceutici S.p.A. an
Italian company engaged in the  production and distribution of prescription  and
over-the-counter pharmaceutical products.
 
                                       3
<PAGE>
    The  Company  currently is  seeking approval  by the  FDA for  the following
products for the indications listed:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
  PRODUCT                         INDICATIONS                         DATE FILED
- -----------  ------------------------------------------------------  -------------
<S>          <C>                                                     <C>
Zithromax    Lower respiratory tract infection -- pediatric          December 1995
Zithromax    MYCOBACTERIUM AVIUM COMPLEX (MAC)                       December 1995
Zithromax    Atypical pneumonia                                      December 1995
Zoloft       Panic disorder                                          December 1995
Norvasc      Safety-label change for treatment of hypertension and   April 1995
             angina among those with congestive heart failure
Zithromax    Certain sexually transmitted diseases                   December 1994
tenidap      Osteo- and rheumatoid arthritis                         December 1993
Unasyn       Injectible antibiotic -- pediatric                      November 1993
Zyrtec       Pediatric                                               January 1993
Zoloft       Obsessive-compulsive disorder                           May 1992
</TABLE>
 
    In addition, the Company has marketing rights in the United States and Japan
to XOMA Corporation, Inc.'s E5, a monoclonal antibody for the treatment of  gram
negative sepsis, which is undergoing FDA regulatory review.
 
    HOSPITAL PRODUCTS
 
    The Company's Hospital Products Group consists of two divisions -- Howmedica
and  the Medical Devices Division. Howmedica manufactures and markets orthopedic
implants. Medical Devices consists of  four core businesses -- Schneider,  NAMIC
U.S.A.  Corporation ("NAMIC"), Valleylab and American Medical Systems as well as
smaller businesses,  including  Strato/Infusaid.  In  1995,  the  sales  of  the
Hospital  Products Group  accounted for  13% of  the Company's  consolidated net
sales compared with 14% in 1994 and 15% in 1993.
 
    Howmedica's reconstructive hip, knee  and bone cement  products are used  to
replace  joints  which  have deteriorated  as  a  result of  disease  or injury.
Howmedica's internal  and  external  fixation devices  are  used  by  orthopedic
surgeons  to  manage  bone  fractures.  In  January  1996,  Pfizer  acquired the
Leibinger Companies headquartered  in Freiburg, Germany  and Dallas, Texas.  The
Leibinger  Companies, which will operate as a division of Howmedica, are leaders
in the development, manufacture and distribution of implantable devices used  in
oral  and craniomaxillofacial  surgery and specialty  surgical instruments. They
have also pioneered advances in  stereotaxy equipment and computer software  for
sophisticated neurological procedures.
 
    Schneider,  an international leader  in angioplasty catheters,  is a leading
supplier of stents for vascular  and non-vascular applications. NAMIC,  acquired
in   March  1995,   designs,  manufactures   and  markets   a  broad   range  of
single-patient-use medical  products, primarily  for use  in the  diagnosis  and
treatment  of  atherosclerotic  cardiovascular  disease.  NAMIC's  product lines
complement those of Schneider and are expected to expand opportunities for  both
businesses.
 
    Valleylab  is  a  leading  manufacturer  of  electrosurgical  and ultrasonic
surgical equipment  used in  open and  minimally invasive  surgical  procedures.
Valleylab  continues to invest in new product lines to improve surgical outcomes
and enhance both patient and physician safety.
 
    American Medical Systems  is a  manufacturer and marketer  of impotence  and
incontinence  implants. In  September 1995, AMS  entered into  an agreement with
Reprogenesis L.P. to collaborate on novel applications of tissue engineering for
the treatment of urological disorders.
 
                                       4
<PAGE>
    Strato/Infusaid is a  manufacturer and supplier  of vascular access  devices
and  advanced drug delivery  systems. In October  1995, Strato/Infusaid received
FDA approval for sale of implantable pumps for the intrathecal administration of
morphine.
 
ANIMAL HEALTH
 
    In January 1995, the Company  acquired the SmithKline Beecham Animal  Health
("SBAH") business, a world leader in animal vaccines and companion animal health
products,  which complemented the  Company's existing animal  health business in
terms of product, species and  geographic sales coverage. The acquired  business
has been fully integrated into the Company's animal health business.
 
    The  Company's  Animal Health  Group  discovers, develops,  manufactures and
sells animal health  products for the  prevention and treatment  of diseases  in
livestock,  poultry,  companion  animals and  other  animals. The  Company  is a
significant  manufacturer   of   injectable   antibiotics,   anthelmintics   and
anticoccidial  products for food animals, and  with the acquisition of SBAH, the
Company became a significant  manufacturer of biologicals  and pet products.  In
1995,  the Animal Health Group contributed 12% of the Company's consolidated net
sales, compared with 8% in 1994 and in 1993.
 
    The  principal  products   of  the   Animal  Health   Group  are:   Dectomax
(doramectin),  the Company's antiparasitic which was  first launched in 1993 and
is now  available in  much of  Latin America,  South Africa  and Europe;  Stafac
(virginiamycin),  a feed additive anti-infective  for poultry, cattle and swine;
Terramycin  LA-200  (oxytetracycline)  (marketed  as  TM/LA  outside  of   North
America),   a  broad-spectrum  injectable  antibiotic;  the  Banminth  (pyrantel
tartrate),  Nemex   (pyrantel   pamoate)  and   Paratect   (morantel   tartrate)
anthelmintics;  Coxistac and Posistac (salinomycin) anticoccidials primarily for
poultry;   Valbazen   (albendazole),    a   bovine   parasiticide;    Terramycin
(oxytetracycline),  a  broad-spectrum antibiotic  used for  a variety  of animal
diseases;  Mecadox   (carbadox),  an   antibacterial  for   pigs;  and   Advocin
(danofloxacin),   the  Company's  new  antibacterial  for  treating  respiratory
diseases  in  livestock   and  poultry.     Aviax   (semduramicin),  a   potent,
broad-spectrum  ionophore anticoccidial used to  prevent coccidiosis in poultry,
was launched in 1995 in Japan  and Latin America. The Company also  manufactures
and  sells  an extensive  line of  cattle, swine  and companion  animal vaccines
including BoviShield, Leukocell, RespiSure and Vanguard.
 
    Animal health and  nutrition products are  sold through veterinarians,  drug
wholesalers,  distributors, retail outlets and directly to users, including feed
manufacturers and animal  producers. The principal  methods of competition  with
respect  to animal health products vary somewhat but include product innovation,
service, price, quality and effective transfer of technological advances to  the
market  through  advertising  and  promotion.  A  substantial  number  of  other
companies manufacture and  sell one  or more products  that are  similar to  the
Company's  animal health  products. There  are hundreds  of producers  of animal
health products throughout the world.
 
CONSUMER HEALTH CARE
 
    The Company's  Consumer Health  Care  Group's products  include  proprietary
health  items, baby care products and toiletries,  and a number of products sold
only in selected international markets,  including Vanart hair care products  in
Mexico  and Migraleve over-the-counter  ("OTC") migraine medication  and the TCP
line of  antiseptic and  germicidal products  marketed primarily  in the  United
Kingdom.
 
    Among  the  better-known OTC  brands manufactured  and marketed  by Consumer
Health  Care  are  Visine  (tetrahydrozoline  HCl)  eyedrops,  Ben-Gay   topical
analgesics,  Desitin diaper rash ointments,  Unisom (doxylamine succinate) sleep
aids, Plax pre-brushing dental rinse, Rid anti-lice products and Barbasol  shave
creams  and gels.  Line extensions  introduced in  recent years  include: Unisom
SleepGels, soft liquid-filled  gels with a  maximum-strength sleep aid  formula;
Daily  Care from Desitin, a  lotion for the prevention  of diaper rash; Barbasol
Pure Silk women's shave products; and new
 
                                       5
<PAGE>
formulations of Rid  and Plax.  In August 1995,  the Company  purchased Bain  de
Soleil  skin care  products from  Procter & Gamble.  In March  1996, the Company
agreed to acquire the  Cortizone and Hemorid brands  from Thompson Medical  Co.,
Inc.  Cortizone is a  leading brand of  over-the-counter hydrocortisone products
and Hemorid is the  only brand of  hemorrhoidal preparations expressly  designed
for women.
 
    The  Company completed several successful prescription--to--over-the-counter
(OTC) launches  in  1995.  An  OTC version  of  Reactine,  Canada's  leading  Rx
antihistamine  (cetirizine  HCl), was  launched in  that  country in  April. OTC
formulations of tioconazole were  introduced in Canada  as GyneCure for  vaginal
candidiasis  and  Trosyd  AF  for  athlete's  foot.  In  November,  Diflucan One
(fluconazole) was launched in the United Kingdom as a one-pill OTC treatment for
vaginal candidiasis. In February 1996,  Juscoat (piroxicam gel) was launched  in
Japan for treatment of chronic shoulder and back pain.
 
    Many  other companies,  large and  small, manufacture  and sell  one or more
products that are similar to the Company's consumer health products. The Company
is a significant  competitor in  this extensive  OTC market,  and its  principal
methods  of competition  include product  quality, product  innovation, customer
satisfaction,  broad  distribution  capabilities,  significant  advertising  and
promotion  efforts and price. In general,  the winning and retaining of consumer
acceptance of the  Company's consumer  products involve  heavy expenditures  for
advertising, promotion and marketing.
 
DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS: FOOD SCIENCE BUSINESS
 
    In  December  1995, the  Company agreed  to sell  substantially all  the net
assets  of  its  food  science  business   to  Cultor  Ltd.,  a  publicly   held
international nutrition company based in Finland, for approximately $350 million
in  cash. The  sale was  completed in  January 1996.  Disposal of  the remaining
assets, which are  not material to  the Company's business  or the food  science
business,  is  expected to  be completed  over several  years. The  food science
business  has  been  reported  in  the  Company's  financial  statements  as   a
discontinued operation.
 
FINANCIAL SUBSIDIARIES
 
    The  Company conducts international banking operations through a subsidiary,
Pfizer International  Bank  Europe  (PIBE),  based  in  Dublin,  Ireland.  PIBE,
incorporated  under the laws  of Ireland, operates under  a full banking license
from the Central  Bank of  Ireland. It  makes loans  and accepts  deposits in  a
number  of currencies  in international  markets. PIBE  is an  active Euromarket
lender through  its portfolio  of loans  and money  market instruments  to  high
quality  corporations and sovereigns. Loans are made  on a short and medium term
basis, with floating interest rates.
 
    The Company's  insurance operation,  The Kodiak  Company Limited,  reinsures
certain  assets,  inland transport  and marine  cargo of  Pfizer's international
operations.
 
INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS
 
    Outside the  United States,  the Company  has significant  operations,  both
direct  and through  distributors that, in  general, parallel  its United States
businesses. In 1995, the Company registered  net sales in excess of $10  million
in  each of 45 countries outside the U.S., with no single country other than the
U.S. and Japan,  contributing more than  10% of total  net sales. The  Company's
international  businesses are subject, in varying  degrees, to a number of risks
inherent in carrying on business in certain countries outside the United States,
including  possible   nationalization,  expropriation   and  other   restrictive
government  actions  such as  capital regulations.  In  addition, the  values of
currencies change and can either  favorably or unfavorably impact the  financial
position  and the  results of operations  of the  Company.  It  is impossible to
predict future changes in foreign exchange  values or the effect they will  have
on the Company. The Company actively manages its foreign exchange risk through a
variety  of  techniques  including the  use  of foreign  currency  contracts. In
addition, the
 
                                       6
<PAGE>
Company engages in hedging programs  designed to protect selected balance  sheet
positions  and future cash  flow exposures. Further  information with respect to
the  financial  instruments  used  to  carry  out  these  hedging  programs   is
incorporated  by  reference  to  the note  entitled  "Financial  Instruments and
Concentrations of Credit  Risk" beginning  on page 47  of the  Annual Report  to
Shareholders for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995.
 
TAX MATTERS
 
    The  earnings of the Company's pharmaceutical subsidiary operating in Puerto
Rico are  subject to  taxes pursuant  to an  incentive grant  effective  through
December  31,  2002. Under  this  grant, the  Company  is partially  exempt from
income, property and municipal taxes. For tax years beginning after December 31,
1993, the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993 ("OBRA") reduced by 40%  the
benefits  accruing to the Company under Section 936 of the Internal Revenue Code
(the "Puerto Rico  tax credit"). Such  tax benefits will  decline an  additional
five  percentage points  per year  through 1998.  For tax  years beginning after
December 31, 1997, the Puerto Rico tax credit will be fixed at 40% of the  level
allowed prior to the enactment of OBRA.
 
    The  Internal Revenue Service  ("IRS") has completed  its examination of the
Company's federal income tax returns for the years 1987 through 1989. As part of
this process, the Company received an examination report from the IRS in  August
1995, requesting a response within 30 days, which sets forth the adjustments the
IRS  is proposing for those  years. The Company has  filed a response protesting
the proposed  adjustments and  is awaiting  communication from  the IRS  Appeals
office.  The  proposed  adjustments  relate  primarily  to  the  tax  accounting
treatment of certain swaps and related transactions undertaken by the Company in
1987 and  1988. These  transactions resulted  in the  receipt of  cash in  those
years,  which the Company duly reported as  income for tax purposes. In 1989 (in
Notice 89-21), the IRS announced that it believed cash received in certain  swap
transactions  should be reported as income for tax purposes over the life of the
swaps, rather than when received. In the  case of the Company, this would  cause
some  of the income  to be reported  in years subject  to the Tax  Reform Act of
1986. The IRS proposed adjustment involves approximately $72 million in  federal
taxes for the years 1987 through 1989, plus interest. If the proposed adjustment
is  carried through to the  maturity of the transactions  in 1992, an additional
tax deficiency of approximately  $86 million, plus  interest, would result.  The
Company disagrees with the proposed adjustment and continues to believe that its
tax  accounting  treatment  for the  transactions  in question  was  proper. The
Company is  protesting  and appealing  the  proposed adjustments.  While  it  is
impossible  to determine  the final disposition,  the Company is  of the opinion
that the ultimate resolution of this  matter should not have a material  adverse
effect on the financial position or the results of operations of the Company.
 
    In  November  1994, Belgian  tax  authorities notified  Pfizer  Research and
Development Company N.V./S.A. ("PRDCO"), an indirect wholly owned subsidiary  of
the  Company, of a proposed adjustment to the taxable income of PRDCO for fiscal
year 1992. The proposed adjustment arises  from an assertion by the Belgian  tax
authorities  of  jurisdiction with  respect to  income resulting  primarily from
certain transfers of property by non-Belgian subsidiaries of the Company to  the
Irish  branch of PRDCO. In  January 1995, PRDCO received  an assessment from the
tax authorities for additional taxes and interest of approximately $432  million
and $97 million, respectively, relating to these matters. In January 1996, PRDCO
received  an  assessment from  the tax  authorities, for  fiscal year  1993, for
additional taxes  and interest  of approximately  $86 million  and $18  million,
respectively.  The new assessment arises from  the same assertion by the Belgian
tax authorities of jurisdiction with respect  to all income of the Irish  branch
of  PRDCO. Based upon the relevant facts regarding the Irish branch of PRDCO and
the provisions of  Belgium tax laws  and the written  opinions of outside  legal
counsel, the Company believes that the assessments are wholly without merit.
 
    The  Company believes that its accrued  tax liabilities are adequate for all
open years.
 
                                       7
<PAGE>
PATENTS AND RESEARCH
 
    The Company owns or is  licensed under a number  of patents relating to  its
products and manufacturing processes which, in the aggregate, are believed to be
of material importance in its businesses. Based on current product sales, and in
view  of the vigorous competition with products sold by others, the Company does
not consider any single patent or related group of patents to be significant  in
relation  to the enterprise as a whole,  except for the Procardia XL, Zithromax,
Diflucan, Zoloft and Norvasc patents. Procardia XL employs a novel drug delivery
system developed  and  patented  by  Alza  Corporation.  The  Company  holds  an
exclusive  license to  use this delivery  system with nifedipine  until 2003. In
mid-1993, the FDA approved  a New Drug Application  (" NDA") for a  competitor's
sustained-release  form of  nifedipine for  the treatment  of hypertension. This
product uses a different  delivery system from the  patented technology used  in
Procardia  XL. Other forms of sustained-release nifedipine have been reported to
be in various stages of development  and in the marketplace by other  companies.
It  is not possible to predict the timing and impact on sales of Procardia XL of
possible future  competition. Zithromax  is a  novel, broad  spectrum  macrolide
antibiotic  patented by Pliva and exclusively  licensed to the Company for sales
and marketing in all major  countries of the world.  The U.S. product patent  on
Zithromax  (azithromycin) expires in 2005. The Company holds patents relating to
Diflucan, Zoloft, and Norvasc.
 
    The Company spent in excess of $1.4  billion in 1995, $1.1 billion in  1994,
and   $960  million  in  1993  on  Company-sponsored  research  and  development
throughout the world.  In 1996, the  Company plans to  spend approximately  $1.7
billion  on  research and  development. In  1991,  the Company  also established
Pfizer Research and Development Company (PRDCO) in Ireland. In 1992, the Company
provided PRDCO with  an initial  capitalization of approximately  $1 billion  to
enable  PRDCO  to  engage in  research  and development  through  a cost-sharing
arrangement with Pfizer Ltd. (a Pfizer U.K. subsidiary) in exchange for  PRDCO's
receiving  a portion of property rights  relating to the development of specific
products.
 
    Competition in  research,  involving the  development  of new  products  and
processes   and  the  improvement   of  existing  products   and  processes,  is
particularly significant and results  from time to time  in product and  process
obsolescence.  The development of new and  improved products is important to the
Company's success in all areas of its business.
 
EMPLOYEES
 
    As of December 31, 1995,  the Company employed approximately 43,800  persons
in  its continuing  operations throughout the  world as  follows: United States,
17,800;  Europe,  12,500;   Asia,  7,200;  Canada/Latin   America,  4,900;   and
Africa/Middle  East,  1,400.  The  Company  has  a  good  relationship  with its
employees. The Food Science business, which  was sold in January 1996,  employed
approximately 500 persons as of December 31, 1995.
 
REGULATION
 
    Most  of  the  Company's  businesses  are  subject  to  varying  degrees  of
governmental regulation in the countries in which operations are conducted. Such
regulation in the United States involves a more complex product approval process
than in many  other countries  and therefore  often results  in later  marketing
clearances  and  a  corresponding increase  in  the expense  of  introducing new
products in  the  United  States.  In  many  international  markets,  prices  of
pharmaceuticals are controlled by the government.
 
    The 1990 Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act requires pharmaceutical companies
to extend rebates to state Medicaid agencies based on each state's reimbursement
of  pharmaceutical products under the Medicaid program. The Veterans Health Care
Act, passed in 1992, requires manufacturers to provide discounts on purchases of
pharmaceutical products by  the Department  of Veterans Affairs  ("DVA") and  by
certain entities funded by the Public Health Service. The Company's net sales in
1995
 
                                       8
<PAGE>
were  reduced by Medicaid rebates and rebates under related state programs which
amounted to $85 million.  In addition, in 1995,  Pfizer provided $80 million  in
discounts  to the federal government, primarily to the DVA and the Department of
Defense, for drugs purchased in accordance with the Veterans Health Care Act.
 
    In 1990, the  FDA announced  a call for  data for  ingredients contained  in
products  bearing anti-plaque and related  claims. The call for  data is part of
the FDA's ongoing review, begun in 1972, of OTC drug products. The FDA is taking
this administrative approach to evaluate the safety and efficacy of  anti-plaque
products and has not proceeded further with regard to 1989 regulatory letters it
issued  to  the  Company and  several  other manufacturers  of  products bearing
anti-plaque claims. The  Company submitted  its response  to the  call for  data
relating  to Plax, its pre-brushing dental rinse, on June 17, 1991. This filing,
as well  as  filings  of other  manufacturers,  is  still under  review  and  is
currently being considered by an FDA Advisory Panel.
 
    On  January 1, 1995,  the new European  Medicines Evaluation Agency ("EMEA")
instituted a new  drug-approval process for  the member states  of the  European
Union ("EU"). The EMEA provides two new drug-approval procedures. A "centralized
procedure"  supplements the traditional decentralized  approach and allows for a
single central approval that is valid in all EU states. The first such approval,
for a non-Pfizer pharmaceutical, was issued in 1995. While it is envisioned that
it will take several years for EMEA to be fully operational, it is expected that
a harmonized, centralized regulatory  agency in Europe  would offer benefits  to
the  human  and  veterinary drug  industries.  The Company  continues  to assess
developments in this area  and is implementing  strategies designed to  maximize
benefits to the Company's products.
 
    During  1995, Congress set aside its debate on reform of the U.S. healthcare
system and  focused on  balancing the  Federal  budget. As  part of  the  budget
process,  proposals  from  both  parties call  for  substantial  reforms  of the
Medicare and  Medicaid  programs.  As with  the  Congressional  coordination  of
healthcare  reform in  1994, Congress  has not,  to date,  been able  to reach a
consensus. If consensus is reached, and Medicare and/or Medicaid legislation  is
enacted,   it  may  require  significant  reductions  from  currently  projected
expenditures for  the  Medicare and  Medicaid  programs. Medicaid  managed  care
systems  driven by  budget concerns are  already under  consideration in several
states. If the Medicare  and Medicaid programs  implement systems that  severely
restrict  the access of  program participants to  innovative new medicines, this
could have a significant adverse effect on the Company.
 
RAW MATERIALS AND ENERGY
 
    Raw materials essential to the business of the Company and its  subsidiaries
are  generally obtainable from multiple sources.  The Company did not experience
any significant restrictions on availability of raw materials or supplies during
the last year and none is expected in 1996. Energy was available to the  Company
in  sufficient quantities  to meet  Company requirements  and this  condition is
expected to continue in 1996.
 
ENVIRONMENT
 
    Certain of the Company's operations are affected by Federal, State and local
laws and regulations relating to environmental quality. The Company has made and
intends to continue to make the
 
                                       9
<PAGE>
necessary expenditures for environmental  protection. Compliance with such  laws
and  regulations  is not  expected  to have  a  material adverse  effect  on the
financial position or the results of operations of the Company.
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                         UNITED   ALL
                                                         STATES  OTHER   TOTAL
                                                         ------  -----   -----
                                                         (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS)
<S>                                                      <C>     <C>     <C>
Environment-related capital expenditures:
  1995 Actual..........................................  $41.9   $ 4.0   $45.9
  1996 Estimated.......................................   49.5    11.8    61.3
  1997 Estimated.......................................   42.7     3.5    46.2
Other environmental-related expenses:
  1995 Actual..........................................   35.7    13.0    48.7
  1996 Estimated.......................................   43.5    20.3    63.8
</TABLE>
 
ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES
 
    Following is a  summary description  of the Company's  principal plants  and
properties:
 
    The  Company's world  headquarters is located  at 235 East  42nd Street, New
York, NY.  The  Company  owns  this  33-story  office  building  which  contains
approximately 650,000 square feet. The building stands on slightly less than one
acre  of land which is leased under an  agreement expiring in 2057. In 1983, the
Company purchased a nine-story office building located at 219 East 42nd  Street,
containing  approximately 263,400 square  feet which is  immediately adjacent to
the Company's headquarters. The Company  also leases additional office space  in
New York City consisting of approximately 111,000 square feet.
 
    All of the following properties are owned in fee by the Company.
 
    Groton  Research Laboratories and  Plant Facilities --  These facilities are
located in  Groton, Connecticut,  and surrounding  towns, on  approximately  649
acres,  and include a  number of buildings  of one to  eight stories, containing
approximately 3,088,000  square feet  of floor  space either  existing or  under
construction.
 
    In the research complex at Groton, construction of significant new buildings
is  continuing, with major expansion (116,000 square feet) of the pharmaceutical
research  and  development   facilities  scheduled  for   completion  in   1996.
Construction  was completed in  1993 on several  research expansions including a
156,000-square-foot  drug-safety   building   addition,   a   30,000-square-foot
central-utilities   building,  and   a  442,000-square-foot   parking  facility.
Principal products produced at Groton are bulk pharmaceuticals. Since  acquiring
the   plant  in  1946,  the  Company  has  made  major  improvements,  including
construction of production facilities, a powerhouse and generating equipment and
a large research complex adjacent to  the plant. In 1992, major improvements  to
plant  facilities were initiated,  including a process  effluent and waste water
treatment facility and a major pharmaceutical capacity replacement project. Both
projects are expected to be completed in 1996.
 
    Brooklyn  Plant  --  The  Company's  site  in  Brooklyn,  New  York,  is  on
approximately 17 acres, including a number of buildings containing approximately
596,000  square  feet of  floor  space. The  primary  operations, pharmaceutical
dosage-form manufacturing and packaging, are housed in an eight-story production
facility containing 545,000 square feet.
 
    Memphis  Logistics  Center  --  This  distribution  and  order   fulfillment
operation  is  located on  a 20-acre  site in  Memphis, Tennessee.  Three former
distribution centers  (Atlanta,  Chicago and  Dallas)  merged into  the  Memphis
Logistics Center in 1995, creating this geographically centralized facility. The
Center  provides the  Company with  262,440 square  feet of  warehouse space and
15,000 square  feet  of  office  space.  In  addition,  the  warehouse  has  the
capability of expanding by another 175,000 square feet. Besides distribution and
transportation  services,  the Memphis  facility is  also used  as a  center for
certain customer service operations of the Company.
 
                                       10
<PAGE>
    Vigo Plant and Research Facility -- These facilities, located in Vigo County
near Terre  Haute, Indiana,  are on  a  site of  approximately 2,000  acres  and
consist of a number of buildings of one to five stories containing approximately
575,000  square feet of  floor space. Principal products  produced at this plant
are pharmaceutical products and bulk antibiotics. Animal health research is also
performed on this site. The acreage and floor space reflect the sale of Pfizer's
Food Science Group to Cultor Ltd. The sale was consummated on January 28, 1996.
 
    Barceloneta Plant -- Pfizer  Pharmaceuticals Inc. is  located on an  89-acre
property  owned by  the Company at  Barceloneta, Puerto Rico.  An additional 151
acres of  land adjacent  to this  property  were purchased  in 1991  for  future
utilization.  An adjacent 9-acre site was  purchased in 1995 and integrated into
existing facilities. The facilities  contain four major manufacturing  buildings
(of  two to four floors)  and twelve support buildings  with a total approximate
area of 419,700 square feet of floor space; and ten additional facilities  (tank
farms, electrical substations, cooling towers, etc.) with an approximate area of
81,000  square feet, for a total  plant facilities area of approximately 500,700
square feet. The  plant houses organic  synthesis manufacturing,  pharmaceutical
dosage-form  manufacturing  and packaging  facilities  and the  required service
areas,  such  as  bulk  and   drum  liquid  storage,  laboratories,   utilities,
engineering shops, employee services and administration.
 
    Lincoln  Plant  and  Research  Facility and  Lee's  Summit  Facility  -- The
Company's principal Animal  Health facilities are  located in Lincoln,  Nebraska
and  Lee's Summit, Missouri. The  extensive Lincoln property encompasses 850,651
square feet, including a biological production facility covering 285,348  square
feet of floor space, a pharmaceutical production facility covering 87,640 square
feet,  18  satellite buildings  and two  offsite  research farms.  Operations at
Lincoln include a manufacturing center for biological and pharmaceutical  animal
health products, and a research and development center for biological products.
 
    The  Lee's Summit Facility is  located on a site  of approximately 104 acres
owned by the  Company in  the City of  Lee's Summit,  Jackson County,  Missouri.
There  are five major buildings on  the site of one to  five floors with a total
floor space  of approximately  215,000 square  feet. Primary  operations at  the
facility  are  manufacturing  and  packaging  of  sterile  injectible  products,
blending  and  packaging   of  medicated  premix   products,  and   distribution
operations.
 
    Other  U.S.  Locations  --  The Company  also  operates  9  other production
facilities in the  United States  and has five  regional sales  centers and  two
additional  distribution centers in various parts of the country which are owned
in fee.
 
    Outside the United  States -- The  Company's major manufacturing  facilities
outside  the United  States are  located in  Australia, Belgium,  Brazil, China,
France, Germany,  Great  Britain,  India,  Ireland,  Italy,  Japan,  Mexico  and
Venezuela.  The plants in these thirteen countries have an aggregate of over 2.5
million square feet of floor  space. Other plants are  located in over 16  other
countries around the world.
 
    Sandwich  -- A large medicinal and animal health research unit is located in
Sandwich, England where an 82,000-square-foot clinical-sciences building  became
operational  in 1993  and a  99,000-square-foot animal-sciences  building became
operational in early 1994.  Construction of a 97,000-square-foot  pharmaceutical
sciences  building is in the advanced stage of completion. An effluent treatment
plant is also under construction for this site.
 
    Ringaskiddy -- The  Ringaskiddy facility  in Ireland  comprises three  fully
operational  bulk  organic  synthesis  manufacturing  plants  which  are  of key
importance to bulk organic substance sourcing. The last unit began operating  in
early 1995 and is now operating at design capacity. Ringaskiddy manufactures the
majority of bulk products required by the International Pharmaceuticals Group in
its  worldwide  dosage-form operations.  These  manufacturing plants,  which are
computer controlled,  provide considerable  flexibility  in supplying  both  the
current  and foreseeable requirements  for the Group. The  facility also has the
capacity  to  support  the  manufacture   of  substances  being  developed   for
 
                                       11
<PAGE>
future  products. Ringaskiddy's manufacturing operations are self-supported by a
modern and  efficient  infrastructure,  providing such  services  as  utilities,
quality assurance, environmental treatment systems and maintenance.
 
    Nagoya  --  The Nagoya  facility  in Japan  encompasses  several significant
individual operations  in addition  to its  research function  and is  the  sole
supplier  of certain bulk  substances. Fermentation, bulk  organic synthesis and
dosage-form  manufacturing  are  important  to  the  supply  of  the   Company's
operations in Japan (the country with the largest sales after the United States)
as  well as elsewhere in the world.  Various facilities on the site are computer
controlled  and,  similar  to  Ringaskiddy,  the  manufacturing  operations  are
self-supported  by utility services,  quality assurance, environmental treatment
systems and maintenance functions. Manufacturing facilities for fermentation and
refining are being  expanded to  meet the  growing demand  for specialized  drug
substances and are expected to be operational by the end of 1996.
 
    In  addition to  the facilities  outlined above,  research laboratories also
exist in France and Germany.
 
    The Company's  major manufacturing  facilities  in the  U.S. and  the  other
locations  referred  to  above  manufacture  various  products  for  all  of the
Company's  businesses.  These  properties  are  maintained  in  good   operating
condition  and the manufacturing facilities  have capacities considered adequate
to meet the Company's needs.
 
ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
    The Company is  involved in a  number of claims  and litigations,  including
product  liability claims and litigations considered normal in the nature of its
businesses. These include  suits involving various  pharmaceutical and  hospital
products that allege either reaction to or injury from use of the product.
 
    As  previously  disclosed, numerous  claims  have been  brought  against the
Company and  Shiley Incorporated,  a wholly  owned subsidiary,  alleging  either
personal injury from fracture of 60 DEG. or 70 DEG. Shiley Convexo-Concave (C/C)
heart  valves,  or  anxiety  that properly  functioning  implanted  valves might
fracture in the future or personal  injury from a prophylactic replacement of  a
functioning valve.
 
    In  an  attempt  to  resolve  all  claims  alleging  anxiety  that  properly
functioning valves might  fracture in  the future,  the Company  entered into  a
settlement  agreement  in January  1992 in  Bowling  v. Shiley,  et al.,  a case
brought in the United States District  Court for the Southern District of  Ohio,
that  establishes a worldwide  settlement class of people  with C/C heart valves
and their spouses, except those who elect to exclude themselves. The  settlement
provides  for a Consultation Fund  of $90 million to  $140 million (depending on
the number of  claims filed) from  which valve recipients  who make claims  will
receive  payments that  are intended  to cover  their cost  of consultation with
cardiologists or other health care providers  with respect to their valves.  The
settlement  agreement  establishes a  second  fund of  at  least $75  million to
support C/C valve-related research, including  the development of techniques  to
identify  valve recipients  who may  have significant  risk of  fracture, and to
cover the  unreimbursed medical  expenses that  valve recipients  may incur  for
certain  procedures  related  to  the valves.  The  Company's  obligation  as to
coverage of these  unreimbursed medical expenses  is not subject  to any  dollar
limitation.  Following  a hearing  on  the fairness  of  the settlement,  it was
approved by the court on August 19,  1992. An appeal of the court's approval  of
the  settlement was dismissed on December 21, 1993 by the United States Court of
Appeals for the  Sixth Circuit. A  motion for  rehearing en banc  was denied  on
March 4, 1994, and the U.S. Supreme Court denied a writ of certiorari on October
3,  1994. On  August 8,  1994, the  Sixth Circuit  dismissed an  appeal from the
denial of a motion by the same  appellants to vacate the judgment approving  the
settlement, and the U.S. Supreme Court denied a writ of certiorari on January 9,
1995.  Another appeal to the Sixth Circuit  by the same appellants regarding the
denial of their earlier motion to intervene is pending. It is expected that most
of the  costs arising  from the  Bowling  class settlement  will be  covered  by
insurance and the proceeds of
 
                                       12
<PAGE>
the  sale  of  certain  product  lines of  the  Shiley  businesses  in  1992. Of
approximately 900 implantees (and spouses of some of them) who opted out of  the
Bowling  settlement class, nine have cases  pending; approximately 792 have been
resolved; and approximately 100 have never filed a case or claim.
 
    Several claims relating  to elective  reoperations of  valve recipients  are
currently  pending. Some of these claims relate to elective reoperations covered
by the Bowling class settlement  described above, and, therefore, the  claimants
are  entitled  to  certain  benefits in  accordance  with  the  settlement. Such
claimants, if they irrevocably waive all of the benefits of the settlement,  may
pursue  separate litigation to recover damages in spite of the class settlement.
The Company is defending these claims.
 
    Generally, the  plaintiffs in  all of  the pending  heart valve  litigations
discussed  above seek money damages.  Based on the experience  of the Company in
defending these claims to date, including available insurance and reserves,  the
Company  is of the opinion that these actions should not have a material adverse
effect on the financial position or the results of operations of the Company.
 
    On September 30, 1993, Dairyland  Insurance Co., a carrier providing  excess
liability coverage ("excess carrier") in the early 1980s, commenced an action in
the  California Superior Court in Orange  County, seeking a declaratory judgment
that it was not obligated to  provide insurance coverage for Shiley heart  valve
liability  claims.  On October  8, 1993,  Pfizer filed  cross-complaints against
Dairyland and filed third-party complaints against 73 other excess carriers  who
sold  excess  liability policies  covering periods  from  1978 to  1985, seeking
damages and declaratory judgments that they are obligated to pay for defense and
indemnity to the  extent not paid  by other carriers.  Several such claims  have
been resolved and the remainder are involved in pretrial discovery.
 
    The  Company's operations are  subject to federal,  state, local and foreign
environmental  laws  and  regulations.  Under  the  Comprehensive  Environmental
Response,  Compensation,  and Liability  Act of  1980,  as amended  ("CERCLA" or
"Superfund"), the Company has been designated as a potentially responsible party
by the United  States Environmental  Protection Agency with  respect to  certain
waste  sites with which the Company may have had direct or indirect involvement.
Similar designations have been made  by some state environmental agencies  under
applicable  state superfund laws.  Such designations are  made regardless of the
extent of the Company's involvement. There are also claims that the Company  may
be a responsible party or participant with respect to several waste site matters
in  foreign  jurisdictions.  Such claims  have  been  made by  the  filing  of a
complaint, the issuance of an administrative directive or order, or the issuance
of  a  notice  or  demand  letter.  These  claims  are  in  various  stages   of
administrative  or judicial  proceedings. They  include demands  for recovery of
past governmental costs  and for  future investigative or  remedial actions.  In
many  cases, the  dollar amount of  the claim  is not specified.  In most cases,
claims have  been asserted  against a  number  of other  entities for  the  same
recovery  or other relief  as was asserted  against the Company.  The Company is
currently participating in remedial action at  a number of sites under  federal,
state, local and foreign laws.
 
    To  the extent possible with the  limited amount of information available at
this time, the Company  has evaluated its responsibility  for costs and  related
liability  with  respect to  the  above sites  and is  of  the opinion  that the
Company's liability  with respect  to these  sites should  not have  a  material
adverse  effect on the  financial position or  the results of  operations of the
Company. In arriving at this conclusion, the Company has considered, among other
things, the payments that have been made with respect to the sites in the  past;
the  factors,  such  as  volume and  relative  toxicity,  ordinarily  applied to
allocate defense and remedial costs at such sites; the probable costs to be paid
by the other potentially responsible parties; total projected remedial costs for
a site,  if known;  existing  technology; and  the  currently enacted  laws  and
regulations.  The Company anticipates that a  portion of these costs and related
liability will be covered by available insurance.
 
    Through the early  1970s, Pfizer  (Minerals Division)  and Quigley  Company,
Inc.,  a  wholly owned  subsidiary, sold  a minimal  amount of  one construction
product and several  refractory products containing  some asbestos. These  sales
were  discontinued thereafter. Although  these sales represented  a minor market
share, the Company has been named as  one of a number of defendants in  numerous
 
                                       13
<PAGE>
lawsuits.  These  actions, and  actions related  to the  Company's sale  of talc
products  in  the  past,  claim  personal  injury  resulting  from  exposure  to
asbestos-containing  products, and nearly all seek general and punitive damages.
In these  actions, the  Company  or Quigley  is typically  one  of a  number  of
defendants,  and  both are  members  of the  Center  for Claims  Resolution (the
"CCR"), a  joint defense  organization of  twenty defendants  that is  defending
these claims. The Company and Quigley are responsible for varying percentages of
defense  and liability payments for  all members of the  CCR. Prior to September
1990, the  cases involving  talc products  were  defended by  the CCR,  but  the
Company  is now overseeing its  own defense of these  actions. A number of cases
alleging  property  damage  from   asbestos-containing  products  installed   in
buildings have also been brought against Pfizer.
 
    On  January 15, 1993, a class action complaint and settlement agreement were
filed  in  the  United  States  District  Court  for  the  Eastern  District  of
Pennsylvania  involving  all personal  injury claims  by  persons who  have been
exposed to asbestos-containing products  but who have not  yet filed a  personal
injury  action  against  the  members  of  the  CCR.  The  settlement  agreement
establishes a claims-processing mechanism that will provide historic  settlement
values  upon proof  of impaired medical  condition as  well as claims-processing
rates over  ten years.  In addition,  the shares  allocated to  the CCR  members
eliminate  joint  and  several  liability. The  court  has  determined  that the
settlement is fair and reasonable. Subsequently, the court entered an injunction
enforcing its determination. An  appeal from that injunction  is pending in  the
United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit.
 
    At  approximately the time it filed the  future claims class action, the CCR
settled approximately  16,360 personal  injury cases  on behalf  of its  members
including  Pfizer and  Quigley. The  CCR has  continued to  settle remaining and
opt-out cases  and claims  on a  similar basis  to past  settlements. The  total
pending number of cases as of December 31, 1995 is 14,305 asbestos cases against
Quigley;  5,764 asbestos  cases against Pfizer  Inc.; and 70  talc cases against
Pfizer Inc.
 
    Costs incurred  by the  Company in  defending the  asbestos personal  injury
claims  and the property damage claims, as well as settlements and damage awards
in connection therewith, are  largely insured against  under policies issued  by
several primary insurance carriers and a number of excess carriers.
 
    The  Company believes  that its costs  incurred in  defending and ultimately
disposing of the asbestos personal injury claims, as well as the property damage
claims, will be largely  covered by insurance policies  issued by carriers  that
have  agreed to provide coverage, subject to deductibles, exclusions, retentions
and policy  limits.  In  connection  with  the  future  claims  settlement,  the
defendants  have commenced a third-party  action against their respective excess
insurance  carriers  that  have  not  agreed  to  provide  coverage  seeking   a
declaratory  judgment  that  (a)  the  future  claims  settlement  is  fair  and
reasonable as  to the  carriers; (b)  the carriers  had adequate  notice of  the
future  claims class settlement;  and (c) the carriers  are obligated to provide
coverage for asbestos personal injury claims. Based on the Company's  experience
in  defending the claims to date and the amount of insurance coverage available,
the Company is  of the opinion  that the  actions should not  ultimately have  a
material  adverse effect on the financial  position or the results of operations
of the Company.
 
    The United  States  Environmental Protection  Agency  -- Region  1  and  the
Department  of Justice have informed the  Company that the federal government is
contemplating an enforcement  action arising  primarily out of  a December  1993
multimedia  environmental inspection, as  well as certain  state inspections, of
the  Company's  Groton,  Connecticut  facility.   The  Company  is  engaged   in
discussions  with  the  governmental  agencies  and  does  not  believe  that an
enforcement action,  if brought,  will have  a material  adverse effect  on  the
financial position or the results of operations of the Company.
 
    The  Company has been  named, together with  numerous other manufacturers of
brand name prescription drugs and  certain companies that distribute brand  name
prescription  drugs, in  suits in  federal and  state courts  brought by various
groups of retail pharmacy companies. The federal cases consist principally of  a
class   action   by  retail   pharmacies   (including  approximately   30  named
plaintiffs)(the  Federal  Class  Action),  as  well  as  additional  actions  by
approximately  3,500  individual  retail pharmacies  and  a group  of  chain and
supermarket   pharmacies    (the    "individual    actions").    These    cases,
 
                                       14
<PAGE>
which have been transferred to the United States District Court for the Northern
District  of Illinois  and coordinated  for pretrial  purposes, allege  that the
defendant drug manufacturers  violated the  Sherman Act  by unlawfully  agreeing
with  each other (and, as alleged in some cases, with wholesalers) not to extend
to retail pharmacy companies the same discounts allegedly extended to mail order
pharmacies,  managed  care  companies  and  certain  other  customers,  and   by
unlawfully  discriminating against  retail pharmacy  companies by  not extending
them such discounts. On November 15,  1994, the federal court certified a  class
(the  Federal Class  Action) consisting  of all  persons or  entities who, since
October 15, 1989, bought brand name prescription drugs from any manufacturer  or
wholesaler defendant, but specifically excluding government entities, mail order
pharmacies,  HMOs, hospitals,  clinics and  nursing homes.  Fifteen manufacturer
defendants, including  the Company,  have  agreed to  settle the  Federal  Class
Action  subject to court approval. The Company's share, pursuant to an Agreement
as of January 31, 1996, is  $31.25 million, payable in four annual  installments
without interest. The Company continues to believe that there was no conspiracy,
and specifically denies liability in the Settlement Agreement, but has agreed to
settle  to avoid the monetary and other  costs of litigation. The Settlement was
filed with the Court on February 9, 1996. A hearing was held on February 14, and
the settlement was preliminarily approved and  a final fairness hearing was  set
for  March 27. The Court has tentatively  scheduled the Federal Class Action for
trial commencing May 7, 1996. No other action has been scheduled for trial.
 
    In addition,  consumer  class  actions  have been  filed  in  state  courts,
alleging  injury to consumers as  well as retail pharmacies  from the failure to
give discounts  to  retail pharmacy  companies.  Both  a consumer  class  and  a
retailer  class  have been  certified in  separate California  actions. Consumer
class actions filed in Colorado and Washington have been dismissed, and are  now
on  appeal. The Company was dismissed from a consumer class action in Wisconsin,
but a determination of the finality of that dismissal is pending. Consumer class
actions are also  pending in Alabama,  Arizona, Maine, Michigan,  and New  York.
Retailer class actions are also pending in Alabama and Minnesota.
 
    The  Company believes  that these  cases, which  generally seek  damages and
certain injunctive relief, are without merit.
 
    Schneider (USA) Inc.  and Schneider  (Europe) AG have  been named,  together
with  Advanced  Cardiovascular  Systems,  Inc., in  a  federal  antitrust action
brought on January  2, 1996, by  Boston Scientific Corporation  and SciMed  Life
Systems,  Inc. (a subsidiary  of Boston Scientific) in  the U.S. District Court,
District of  Massachusetts .  The suit  alleges that  the defendants  unlawfully
obtained  and  enforced  certain  patents  covering  rapid  exchange angioplasty
catheters, and conspired  against the  plaintiffs by,  among other  allegations,
their settlement of patent infringement litigation in December of 1991. The suit
seeks  unspecified treble  damages and  injunctive relief.  The Company believes
that the case is without merit.
 
    FDA administrative proceedings relating to Plax are pending, principally  an
industry-wide call for data on all anti-plaque products by the FDA. The call for
data  notice specified that products that have been marketed for a material time
and to a  material extent may  remain on the  market pending FDA  review of  the
data,  provided the  manufacturer has  a good faith  belief that  the product is
generally recognized as safe  and effective and is  not misbranded. The  Company
believes  that Plax satisfied these requirements  and prepared a response to the
FDA's request, which was  filed on June  17, 1991. This filing,  as well as  the
filings  of other  manufacturers, is still  under review and  is currently being
considered by an FDA Advisory Committee.
 
    A consolidated class  action on  behalf of persons  who allegedly  purchased
Pfizer  common stock during the March 24,  1989 through February 26, 1990 period
is pending in the United States District Court for the Southern District of  New
York.  This lawsuit, which commenced on July  13, 1990, alleges that the Company
and  certain  officers  and  former  directors  and  officers  violated  federal
securities  law  by  failing  to disclose  potential  liability  arising  out of
personal injury suits  involving Shiley  heart valves  and seeks  damages in  an
unspecified  amount.  The defendants  in this  action believe  that the  suit is
without merit. A derivative action commenced  on April 2, 1990, against  certain
directors and officers
 
                                       15
<PAGE>
and  former directors and officers alleging breaches of fiduciary duty and other
common law violations  in connection  with the manufacture  and distribution  of
Shiley heart valves is pending in the Superior Court, Orange County, California.
The  complaint seeks,  among other  forms of  relief, damages  in an unspecified
amount. The defendants in the action believe that the suit is without merit.
 
    A purported class action entitled Bradshaw v. Pfizer Inc. and Howmedica Inc.
is pending in  the U.S. District  Court, Northern District  of Ohio. The  action
seeks monetary and injunctive relief, including medical monitoring, on behalf of
patients implanted with the Howmedica P.C.A. one-piece acetabular hip component,
which  was manufactured  by Howmedica from  1983 to 1990.  The complaint alleges
that the  prostheses  were  defectively  designed  and  manufactured  and  posed
undisclosed  risks to implantees.  The federal magistrate  judge has recommended
that the district court  deny the plaintiffs'  motion to certify  the case as  a
class action. The Company believes that the suit is without merit.
 
    From 1994 to 1995, seven purported class actions were filed against American
Medical  Systems  ("AMS")  in  federal  courts  in  South  Carolina, California,
Minnesota (2), Indiana,  Ohio and  Louisiana. The California,  Ohio and  Indiana
suits  and one Minnesota suit also name Pfizer Inc. as a defendant, based on its
ownership of AMS. The suits seek monetary and injunctive relief on the basis  of
allegations  that implantable penile  prostheses are prone  to unreasonably high
rates of mechanical failure  and/or various autoimmune diseases  as a result  of
silicone  materials.  On  September  30, 1994,  the  federal  Judicial  Panel on
Multidistrict Litigation denied the  various plaintiffs' motions to  consolidate
or  coordinate the  cases for  pretrial proceedings.  On February  28, 1995, the
Court in  the  Ohio suit  conditionally  granted plaintiffs'  motion  for  class
certification;  on  March  3, 1995,  the  court  in the  California  suit denied
plaintiffs' motion for class certification; and  on October 25, 1995, the  court
in  the  Indiana  suit denied  plaintiffs'  motion for  class  certification; on
February 15,  1996 the  United States  Court of  Appeals for  the Sixth  Circuit
reversed  the Ohio Court's  conditional certification. The  Company believes the
suits are without merit.
 
    In June, 1993, the  Ministry of Justice  of the State  of Sao Paulo,  Brazil
commenced  a  civil public  action against  the Company's  Brazilian subsidiary,
Laboratorios Pfizer  Ltda. (Pfizer  Brazil) asserting  that during  a period  in
1991,  Pfizer Brazil  withheld sale of  the pharmaceutical  product Diabinese in
violation of antitrust and consumer protection laws. The action seeks the  award
of  moral, economic  and personal  damages to individuals  and the  payment to a
public reserve fund.  On February  8, 1996, the  trial court  issued a  decision
holding  Pfizer  Brazil liable.  The  award of  damages  to individuals  and the
payment into the public reserve fund will be determined in a subsequent phase of
the proceedings. The trial  court's opinion sets out  a formula for  calculating
the  payment  into  the public  reserve  fund which  could  result in  a  sum of
approximately $88  million. The  total  amount of  damages payable  to  eligible
individuals  under the decision would depend on the number of persons eventually
making claims. Pfizer Brazil  is appealing this  decision. The Company  believes
that  this action is without merit and should not have a material adverse effect
on the financial position or the results of operations of the Company.
 
    Information on income tax adjustments proposed  by the U.S. and Belgian  tax
authorities is incorporated by reference to the Tax Matters section in Item 1 on
page 7.
 
ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
 
    Not applicable.
 
                                       16
<PAGE>
ITEM 4A.  EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                        AGE AS OF THE
                         DATE OF THE
                      COMPANY'S ANNUAL
                      MEETING APRIL 25,                    POSITIONS AND OFFICES
NAME                        1996                        WITH COMPANY PRESENTLY HELD
- --------------------  -----------------   -------------------------------------------------------
<S>                   <C>                 <C>
Brian W. Barrett....         56           Vice President; Executive Vice President --
                                           International Pharmaceuticals Group
M. Kenneth Bowler...         53           Vice President -- Federal Government Relations
C. L. Clemente......         58           Senior Vice President -- Corporate Affairs; Secretary
                                           and Corporate Counsel; Member of the Corporate
                                           Management Committee
Bruce R. Ellig......         59           Vice President -- Employee Resources
Donald F. Farley....         53           Vice President; President -- Consumer Health Care Group
George A. Forcier...         57           Vice President -- Quality Control
P. Nigel Gray.......         57           Vice President; President -- Hospital Products Group
Gary N. Jortner.....         51           Vice President; Group Vice President, Disease
                                           Management -- U.S. Pharmaceuticals Group
Karen L. Katen......         47           Vice President; President -- U.S. Pharmaceuticals Group
Alan G. Levin.......         34           Treasurer
Henry A.                     53           Executive Vice President; Member of the Corporate
 McKinnell..........                       Management Committee
Brower A. Merriam...         61           Vice President; President -- Animal Health Group
Victor P. Micati....         56           Vice President; Executive Vice President --
                                           International Pharmaceuticals Group
Paul S. Miller......         57           Senior Vice President; General Counsel; Member of the
                                           Corporate Management Committee
George M. Milne,             52
 Jr.................                      Vice President; President -- Central Research
Robert Neimeth......         60           Executive Vice President; President -- International
                                           Pharmaceuticals Group; Member of the Corporate
                                           Management Committee
John F. Niblack.....         57           Executive Vice President -- Research and Development;
                                           Member of the Corporate Management Committee
William J.                   60
 Robison............                      Senior Vice President -- Employee Resources
Herbert V. Ryan.....         59           Controller
Craig Saxton........         53           Vice President; Executive Vice President -- Central
                                           Research
David L. Shedlarz...         48           Vice President -- Finance and Chief Financial Officer
</TABLE>
 
                                       17
<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                        AGE AS OF THE
                         DATE OF THE
                      COMPANY'S ANNUAL
                      MEETING APRIL 25,                    POSITIONS AND OFFICES
NAME                        1996                        WITH COMPANY PRESENTLY HELD
- --------------------  -----------------   -------------------------------------------------------
<S>                   <C>                 <C>
William C. Steere,           59           Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; Chair of the
 Jr.................                       Corporate Management Committee
Frederick W.                 44           Vice President -- Corporate Strategic Planning and
 Telling............                       Policy
</TABLE>
 
                  BUSINESS EXPERIENCE OF NON-DIRECTOR OFFICERS
 
BRIAN W. BARRETT
 
    Mr.  Barrett  joined  Pfizer Canada  in  1966,  where he  served  in various
financial  positions,  including  Chief   Financial  Officer  of  the   Canadian
subsidiary.   In  1971,  he   was  appointed  Assistant   Controller  of  Pfizer
International in New York;  in 1973, Director of  International Planning and  in
1976, Director of Planning. In 1980, Mr. Barrett was appointed Vice President --
Corporate  Strategic Planning; in 1983, he  became Vice President -- Finance for
Pfizer International; and in 1985, President -- Africa/ Middle East and in 1991,
President -- Asia/Canada. In 1992, Mr. Barrett was elected Vice President of the
Company and in 1993 became President,  Northern Asia, Australasia and Canada  --
International  Pharmaceuticals  Group.  Mr.  Barrett  has  recently  been  named
Executive Vice President, International Pharmaceuticals Group, effective January
1, 1996.
 
M. KENNETH BOWLER
 
    Mr. Bowler  joined the  Company in  1989,  and has  been Vice  President  --
Federal  Government Relations since  1990. He formerly  served as Staff Director
for the House Ways and Means Committee.
 
C. L. CLEMENTE
 
    Mr. Clemente  joined the  Company in  1964 and  has served  in a  number  of
domestic  and international positions, including Vice President; General Counsel
and Secretary, Pfizer International, Inc.  and Vice President of Coty,  formerly
Pfizer's  fragrance  and  cosmetic division.  In  1983, he  was  named Associate
General Counsel of Pfizer Inc. In  1986, he was elected Vice President;  General
Counsel  and  Secretary of  the Company.  He  became a  member of  the Corporate
Management Committee of the Company in 1991. In 1992, he was elected Senior Vice
President -- Corporate Affairs; Secretary and Corporate Counsel.
 
BRUCE R. ELLIG
 
    Mr. Ellig joined  the Company  in 1960. He  progressed through  a number  of
positions  of  increasing  responsibility in  the  Corporate  Personnel Division
including Vice President -- Compensation and Benefits in 1978 and Vice President
- -- Employee  Relations  in 1983.  In  1985, he  was  elected Vice  President  --
Personnel  of  Pfizer Inc.,  the title  of  which recently  was changed  to Vice
President -- Employee Resources.
 
DONALD F. FARLEY
 
    Mr. Farley  joined  the Company  in  1965  as Production  Engineer  for  the
Chemical  Division.  After  serving  in  a  number  of  positions  of increasing
responsibility within the Chemical  Division, he was  named its Vice  President,
Operations in 1982. In 1986 he became Senior Vice President of the Division, and
in  1988, Executive Vice  President -- Specialty Chemicals.  In 1992, Mr. Farley
was named President of the Food Science Group, and in February 1993 was  elected
a  Vice President of the Company. Mr. Farley was recently named President of the
Company's Consumer Health Care Group, effective January 1, 1996.
 
                                       18
<PAGE>
GEORGE A. FORCIER
 
    Dr. Forcier joined the  Company in 1966 as  Analytical Research Chemist  for
the  Company's  Medical Research  Laboratories. In  1970,  he was  named Project
Leader, in 1979  Manager, and  in 1981,  Assistant Director,  of the  Analytical
Research  Department. In 1986  he was named Director  of the Analytical Research
and Development Department and in 1991,  he became Group Director. In 1994,  Dr.
Forcier became Vice President -- Quality Control of the Company.
 
P. NIGEL GRAY
 
    Mr.  Gray joined the Company  in 1975 as Export  Sales Manager for Howmedica
U.K., Ltd.  in  England,  and  progressed  through  a  number  of  positions  of
increasing  responsibility  before  being named  Vice  President,  Marketing for
Howmedica Europe in  1983. In 1987,  Mr. Gray became  Senior Vice President  and
General  Manager of Howmedica International  in Staines, England, then President
of Howmedica International in 1992.  In 1993, he came  to New York as  Executive
Vice  President of the Company's Hospital Products Division and President of the
Medical Devices Division, and in  1994, he was elected  a Vice President of  the
Company. In July 1995, Mr. Gray assumed his current position as President of the
Company's Hospital Products Group.
 
GARY N. JORTNER
 
    Mr.  Jortner joined  the Company  in 1973  as a  Systems Analyst  for Pfizer
Pharmaceuticals. In 1974,  he transferred to  product management and  progressed
through  a series of promotions  that resulted in his  being named Group Product
Manager for Pfizer Labs in 1978. In 1981, he became Vice President of  Marketing
for  Pfizer Labs. In 1986,  he was promoted to  Vice President of Operations for
Pfizer Labs. In 1991,  he was named Vice  President and General Manager,  Pfizer
Labs  Division. In 1992, Mr. Jortner was  elected Vice President of the Company.
In 1994, he was named Vice  President; Group Vice President, Disease  Management
- -- U.S. Pharmamaceuticals Group.
 
KAREN L. KATEN
 
    Ms.  Katen joined the  Company in 1974  as a Marketing  Associate for Pfizer
Pharmaceuticals. Beginning in 1975, she progressed through a number of positions
of increasing  responsibility  in  the Roerig  product  management  group  which
resulted  in  her  being named  Group  Product  Manager in  1978.  In  1980, she
transferred to Pfizer Labs as a Group Product Manager and later became Director,
Product Management.  In  1983, she  returned  to  Roerig as  Vice  President  --
Marketing.  In 1986, she was named Vice  President and General Manager -- Roerig
Division. In 1992, she was elected Vice  President of the Company. In 1993,  Ms.
Katen  became Executive  Vice President of  the U.S.  Pharmaceuticals Group and,
effective August 1, 1995, Ms. Katen assumed her present position as President of
the U.S. Pharmaceuticals Group.
 
ALAN G. LEVIN
 
    Mr. Levin joined the  Company in 1987 as  Senior Operations Auditor for  the
Controllers  Division. In 1988 he joined  the Treasurer's Division as Controller
of the Pfizer International Bank  in San Juan, Puerto  Rico. He returned to  New
York in 1991 as Director -- Finance, Asia, and in 1993 was named Senior Director
- --  Finance, Asia. In  January 1995, Mr.  Levin assumed his  present position as
Treasurer of the Company.
 
HENRY A. MCKINNELL
 
    Dr. McKinnell joined the Company in 1971. In 1977, he became Vice  President
- -- Area Manager for Pfizer Asia. In 1979, he became Executive Vice President and
in  1981,  President of  Pfizer  Asia. In  1984,  Dr. McKinnell  was  named Vice
President -- Corporate Strategic  Planning, and in 1986,  he was elected a  Vice
President  of the  Company. In  1990, Dr.  McKinnell became  the Company's Chief
 
                                       19
<PAGE>
Financial Officer and  was named Vice  President -- Finance  of the Company.  In
1992,  he became a member of the  Corporate Management Committee of the Company.
In that  same year,  he became  Executive  Vice President  of the  Company,  and
President of the Company's Hospital Products Group, in addition to remaining the
Company's  Chief Financial  Officer. In  1995, Dr.  McKinnell's responsibilities
changed, with the Vice Presidents in  charge of the U.S. Pharmaceuticals  Group,
the  Consumer Health Care Group and the  Food Science Group reporting to him, as
well as the Vice President -- Finance and Chief Financial Officer, and the  Vice
President in charge of Corporate Strategic Planning and Policy.
 
BROWER A. MERRIAM
 
    Mr.  Merriam joined the Company in 1969  as Country Manager for Peru, and in
1971, he was appointed Country Manager for Argentina. In 1973, he was  appointed
President  of  Pfizer  Latin  America.  He  was  appointed  Director  of  Pfizer
International in 1984, and in 1988  assumed the position of President for  Latin
America,  Southeast Asia,  Indo-Pacific and  Canada. In  1990, he  was appointed
Executive Vice President of Pfizer  International. In 1991, he became  Executive
Vice  President  of  the Animal  Health  Group  and in  1992  was  appointed its
President. Mr. Merriam was elected a Vice President of the Company in 1992.
 
VICTOR P. MICATI
 
    Mr. Micati joined the Company in  1965 as a Management Candidate for  Pfizer
Labs.  Beginning  in  1966,  he  progressed through  a  number  of  positions of
increasing responsibility in  the Pfizer  Labs division, which  resulted in  his
being  named  Vice  President --  Marketing  in  1971. In  1972  he  became Vice
President of Pharmaceutical  Development for  International Pharmaceuticals.  In
1980,  he was named Executive Vice  President of the European Management Center.
Mr. Micati  returned to  the International  Pharmaceutical Division  in 1984  as
Senior  Vice President, and in 1990 was named President, Europe. In 1992, he was
elected Vice  President of  the  Company. Mr.  Micati  has recently  been  named
Executive Vice President, International Pharmaceuticals Group, effective January
1, 1996.
 
PAUL S. MILLER
 
    Mr.  Miller  joined  the Company  in  1971  and was  appointed  an Assistant
Secretary and Assistant General Counsel in 1975. In 1983, he was named Associate
General Counsel.  In  1986, he  became  Secretary of  the  Corporate  Management
Committee,  and in that same year he was elected Vice President; General Counsel
of the Company. He became a member of the Corporate Management Committee of  the
Company  in 1991. In 1992, Mr. Miller was elected Senior Vice President; General
Counsel of the Company.
 
GEORGE M. MILNE, JR.
 
    Dr. Milne joined the Company  in 1970 as a  Research Scientist. In 1973,  he
was named Senior Research Scientist and progressed through a number of positions
of  increasing responsibility which resulted in  his being named Vice President,
Research and Development Operations  in 1985. In 1988,  Dr. Milne became  Senior
Vice  President,  Research and  Development, and  in 1993,  he was  elected Vice
President of the Company and President, Central Research.
 
ROBERT NEIMETH
 
    Mr. Neimeth joined the Company in 1962 as a management trainee, subsequently
serving  as  Country  Manager,   Nigeria,  as  Vice  President,   Pharmaceutical
Development  in Asia, and then as President of Pfizer Asia from 1972 to 1977. He
then served as Vice President and Director of Operations for Pfizer Labs in  the
U.S.   In   1980   he   became   President   Pfizer   Europe   and,   in   1983,
 
                                       20
<PAGE>
Mr. Neimeth became Vice President of the  Company. In 1984, he was also  elected
Executive  Vice  President  of  Pfizer  International  Subsidiaries  and assumed
supervision of the  pharmaceutical business in  Africa and the  Middle East,  in
addition  to his  responsibilities in Europe.  In 1990, he  was named President,
Pfizer International Subsidiaries.  In 1991, he  became Chairman, President  and
Chief  Executive Officer of Pfizer International. He also became a member of the
Corporate Management Committee of the Company  in 1991. In 1992, he was  elected
Executive   Vice  President   of  the  Company,   and  President,  International
Pharmaceuticals Group. In  this capacity, Mr.  Neimeth supervises the  Company's
International   Pharmaceutical  and  worldwide  Animal  Health  operations  and,
beginning in 1995, the Hospital Products Group as well.
 
JOHN F. NIBLACK
 
    Dr. Niblack joined the Company in 1967 and held various management positions
in new  drug  discovery  operations  before being  appointed  in  1984  as  Vice
President,  Medicinal Products Research and in 1986 as Executive Vice President,
Central Research. In 1990, Dr. Niblack  was named President -- Central  Research
and  elected a Vice President  of the Company. In  1993, Dr. Niblack was elected
Executive Vice President -- Research and Development, and became a member of the
Corporate Management Committee of the Company.
 
WILLIAM J. ROBISON
 
    Mr. Robison joined the Company in 1961 as a Sales Representative for  Pfizer
Labs. After serving in a number of positions of increasing responsibility in the
Labs division, he was appointed Vice President of Sales in 1980, and Senior Vice
President  Pfizer Labs  in 1986.  In 1990  he was  appointed Vice  President and
General Manager of Pratt Pharmaceuticals, and in 1992 was named President of the
Consumer Health Care Group, and was  elected Vice President of the Company.  Mr.
Robison  was  recently  elected  Senior Vice  President  --  Employee Resources,
effective January 1, 1996.
 
HERBERT V. RYAN
 
    Mr. Ryan joined Pfizer in 1962 as Supervisor, Capital Assets. In 1964 he was
named Supervisor,  Corporate  Ledger, and  in  1966 became  Director,  Corporate
Accounting. In 1981 he was appointed Assistant Controller, Corporate Accounting.
In 1993, Mr. Ryan was elected Controller.
 
CRAIG SAXTON
 
    Dr.  Saxton joined the Company in 1976 as Clinical Projects Director for the
Central Research Division of  Pfizer Limited in Sandwich,  England. In 1981,  he
was  named Senior Associate  Medical Director for  the International Division of
Pfizer Inc., and in 1982 became the Division's Vice President, Medical Director.
Dr. Saxton became Senior Vice  President, Clinical Research and Development  for
the  Central Research  Division in  1988. In 1993,  he was  named Executive Vice
President -- Central Research and was elected a Vice President of the Company.
 
DAVID L. SHEDLARZ
 
    Mr. Shedlarz joined the Company in 1976 as Senior Financial Analyst for  the
Pharmaceuticals  Division. After serving in a  number of positions of increasing
responsibility, he was named Production  Controller in 1979 and Assistant  Group
Controller  in 1981. In 1984,  he became Group Controller  and in 1989 was named
Vice President of Finance for the  Pharmaceuticals Group. In 1992, Mr.  Shedlarz
was  elected  Vice President  -- Finance  of  the Company.  In August  1995, Mr.
Shedlarz became Chief Financial Officer of the Company.
 
                                       21
<PAGE>
FREDERICK W. TELLING
 
    Dr. Telling joined the  Company in 1977 as  Associate Personnel Manager  for
the  Pharmaceuticals Division, and  progressed through a  number of positions of
increasing responsibility  before  being  named Director  of  Planning  for  the
Pharmaceuticals  Division in 1981. In  1987, he was named  the Vice President of
Planning and Policy, and in 1994,  Senior Vice President of Planning and  Policy
for  USPG. In 1994, Dr. Telling  was elected Vice President, Corporate Strategic
Planning and Policy.
 
                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS
 
    The principal market for  the Company's Common Stock  is the New York  Stock
Exchange.  It is  also listed  on the London,  Paris, Brussels,  and Swiss Stock
Exchanges. The Company's Common  Stock is also traded  on various United  States
regional  stock  exchanges.  Additional  information required  by  this  item is
incorporated by reference  to the  "Quarterly Consolidated  Statement of  Income
(Unaudited)"  found on  page 59  of the  Annual Report  to Shareholders  for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 1995.
 
ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 
    Financial information for the five most recent fiscal years, as required  by
this  item, is incorporated by reference to  the "Financial Summary" on pages 60
and 61 of the Annual Report to  Shareholders for the fiscal year ended  December
31, 1995.
 
ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS
 
    Information  required  by  this item  is  incorporated by  reference  to the
"Financial Review" on pages 30 through  37 of the Annual Report to  Shareholders
for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995.
 
ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
    Information  required  by  this item  is  incorporated by  reference  to the
"Independent Auditors' Report" found  on page 39  and to consolidated  financial
statements  and supplementary data  found on pages  40 through 59  of the Annual
Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995.
 
ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
 
    Not applicable.
 
                                    PART III
 
ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
    Information with regard to the Directors of the Company, including those  of
the  Executive Officers who are Directors, is incorporated by reference to pages
2 through 7 of the Company's Proxy Statement dated March 19, 1996.
 
    The Board  of Directors  elects officers  at its  first meeting  after  each
annual  meeting of shareholders. The Board may  also elect officers from time to
time throughout the  year. Elected  officers of  the Company  hold office  until
their  successors  are  chosen  or until  their  earlier  death,  resignation or
removal. Information with  regard to the  Executive Officers of  the Company  is
incorporated  by reference to  pages 17 through  22 of this  Form 10-K under the
heading "Executive Officers of the Company."
 
                                       22
<PAGE>
ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
    Information  with  regard  to  executive  compensation  is  incorporated  by
reference to pages 8 through 20 of the Company's Proxy Statement dated March 19,
1996.
 
ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
 
    Information  with regard to security  ownership of certain beneficial owners
and management  is  incorporated  by reference  to  pages  2 through  7  of  the
Company's Proxy Statement dated March 19, 1996.
 
ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
 
    Information with regard to certain relationships and related transactions is
incorporated  by reference  to page  21 of  the Company's  Proxy Statement dated
March 19, 1996.
 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
    The following documents are filed as a part of this report.
 
    (a)(1)  Financial Statements
 
    The  following  consolidated   financial  statements,   related  notes   and
independent  auditors' report,  included on  pages 39  through 59  of the Annual
Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 1995 have previously been
incorporated by reference in Item 8 of Part II of this report:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                       PAGE IN THE
                                                                    ANNUAL REPORT TO
                                                                      SHAREHOLDERS
                                                                    -----------------
<S>                                                                 <C>
Independent Auditors' Report......................................             39
Segment Information...............................................             40
Geographic Data...................................................             41
Consolidated Statement of Income..................................             42
Consolidated Statement of Shareholders' Equity....................             43
Consolidated Balance Sheet........................................             44
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows..............................             45
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements........................          46-58
Quarterly Consolidated Statement of Income........................             59
</TABLE>
 
    (a)(2)  Financial Statement Schedule
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                             PAGE
                                                                             -----
<S>                                                                          <C>
Schedule II -- Valuation and Qualifying Accounts...........................    27
</TABLE>
 
    Schedules not listed above  have been omitted for  the reason that they  are
not  applicable or  not required  or the information  is given  elsewhere in the
financial statements. The  financial statements  of unconsolidated  subsidiaries
are  omitted on the basis that  these subsidiaries, considered in the aggregate,
would not constitute a significant subsidiary.
 
    (a)(3)  Exhibits
 
<TABLE>
<C>     <S><C>
  3(i)  -- Restated Certificate of Incorporation  of the Company, as  of
           April 1991 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(a) of Form
           S-8,   Registration  No.  33-44053),   as  corrected  by  the
           Certificate of  Correction  of the  Restated  Certificate  of
           Incorporation  of the  Company (incorporated  by reference to
           Exhibit 3(i) of the Company's  Form 10-K for the fiscal  year
           ended December 31, 1994).
  3(ii) -- By-laws   of   the  Company,   as   amended  June   23,  1994
           (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(ii) of the  Company's
           Form 8-K Current Report dated June 23, 1994).
</TABLE>
 
                                       23
<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<C>     <S><C>
 10(i)  -- Executive Compensation Plans and Arrangements:
        -- 10.1  -- Form  of Severance  Agreement for  Certain Executive
           Officers of the Company (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
           10(a)(1) of the Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
           December 31, 1994).
        -- 10.2  --  Pfizer  Inc.  Performance-Contingent  Share   Award
           Program  (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 of Form S-8,
           Registration No. 33-56977).
   (ii) -- Stock and Asset Purchase Agreement:
        -- 10.3 -- The Stock and  Asset Purchase Agreement, dated as  of
           November  23, 1994 between the Company and SmithKline Beecham
           plc is incorporated  by reference to  the Company's Form  8-K
           dated January 19, 1995.
 11     -- Computation  of Earnings  Per Common Share  and Fully Diluted
           Earnings Per Common Share.
 12     -- Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.
 13(a)  -- Portions of the Annual Report  of the Company for the  fiscal
           year ended December 31, 1995 which are expressly incorporated
           by reference herein.
 13(b)  -- Copy   of  the  Annual  Report  of  the  Pfizer  Savings  and
           Investment Plan  on  Form  11-K for  the  fiscal  year  ended
           December 31, 1995.
 13(c)  -- Copy   of  the  Annual  Report  of  the  Pfizer  Savings  and
           Investment Plan for Employees Resident in Puerto Rico on Form
           11-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995.
 21     -- Subsidiaries of the Registrant.
 23     -- Report and  consent of  KPMG  Peat Marwick  LLP,  independent
           certified public accountants.
 27     -- Financial Data Schedule
 99     -- Cautionary  Statements Regarding "Safe  Harbor" Provisions of
           the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
</TABLE>
 
    (b)  Reports on Form 8-K
 
    The Company filed a report on Form 8-K dated November 29, 1995.
 
    Exhibits to the  Form 10-K are  available upon  request at a  charge of  ten
cents per page. Requests should be directed to C. L. Clemente, Secretary, Pfizer
Inc., 235 East 42nd Street, New York, N.Y. 10017.
 
                                       24
<PAGE>
                                   SIGNATURES
 
    Pursuant  to  the requirements  of  Section 13  or  15(d) of  the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
                                          Pfizer Inc.
                                          (Registrant)
 
                                          By          /s/ C.L. Clemente
 
                                             -----------------------------------
                                                        C.L. Clemente
                                                         (Secretary)
 
Dated: March 28, 1996
 
    Pursuant to the requirements  of the Securities Exchange  Act of 1934,  this
report  has  been  signed  below  by the  following  persons  on  behalf  of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
           SIGNATURES                                TITLE                           DATE
- --------------------------------   ------------------------------------------   --------------
<C>                                <S>                                          <C>
 
   /s/ WILLIAM C. STEERE, JR.
- --------------------------------   Chairman of the Board, Director (Principal   March 28, 1996
    (William C. Steere, Jr.)        Executive Officer)
 
     /s/ DAVID L. SHEDLARZ         Vice President -- Finance and Chief
- --------------------------------    Financial Officer (Principal Financial      March 28, 1996
      (David L. Shedlarz)           Officer)
 
      /s/ HERBERT V. RYAN
- --------------------------------   Controller (Principal Accounting Officer)    March 28, 1996
       (Herbert V. Ryan)
 
- --------------------------------   Director                                     March   , 1996
       (M. Anthony Burns)
 
     /s/ GRACE J. FIPPINGER
- --------------------------------   Director                                     March 28, 1996
      (Grace J. Fippinger)
 
      /s/ GEORGE B. HARVEY
- --------------------------------   Director                                     March 28, 1996
       (George B. Harvey)
 
    /s/ CONSTANCE J. HORNER
- --------------------------------   Director                                     March 28, 1996
     (Constance J. Horner)
</TABLE>
 
                                       25
<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
           SIGNATURES                                TITLE                           DATE
- --------------------------------   ------------------------------------------   --------------
<C>                                <S>                                          <C>
 
    /s/ STANLEY O. IKENBERRY
- --------------------------------   Director                                     March 28, 1996
     (Stanley O. Ikenberry)
 
    /s/ THOMAS G. LABRECQUE
- --------------------------------   Director                                     March 28, 1996
     (Thomas G. Labrecque)
 
       /s/ JAMES T. LYNN
- --------------------------------   Director                                     March 28, 1996
        (James T. Lynn)
 
- --------------------------------   Director                                     March   , 1996
        (Paul A. Marks)
 
    /s/ EDMUND T. PRATT, JR.
- --------------------------------   Director                                     March 28, 1996
     (Edmund T. Pratt, Jr.)
 
- --------------------------------   Director                                     March   , 1996
      (Franklin D. Raines)
 
      /s/ FELIX G. ROHATYN
- --------------------------------   Director                                     March 28, 1996
       (Felix G. Rohatyn)
 
      /s/ JEAN-PAUL VALLES
- --------------------------------   Director                                     March 28, 1996
       (Jean-Paul Valles)
</TABLE>
 
                                       26
<PAGE>
                      PFIZER INC. AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
                SCHEDULE II -- VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                     Additions                         Balance
                                               BALANCE AT    -------------------------                  at
                                                BEGINNING    CHARGED TO    CHARGED TO                   End
                                                   OF         COSTS AND       OTHER                     of
DESCRIPTION                                      PERIOD       EXPENSES     ACCOUNTS(a)   Deductions(b) Period
- ---------------------------------------------  -----------   -----------   -----------   -----------   -----
                                                                   (millions of dollars)
<S>                                            <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>           <C>
Year ended December 31, 1995
  Valuation and qualifying accounts deducted
   from assets to which they apply:
 
      Allowance for doubtful accounts........  $44.1         $23.9         $ 0.3         $ 7.3(c)      $61.0
                                               -----         -----           ---           ---         -----
                                               -----         -----           ---           ---         -----
      Allowance for credit losses............  $20.5         $ 3.0         $--           $--           $23.5
                                               -----         -----           ---           ---         -----
                                               -----         -----           ---           ---         -----
Year ended December 31, 1994
  Valuation and qualifying accounts deducted
   from assets to which they apply:
 
      Allowance for doubtful accounts........  $40.6         $11.5         $--           $ 8.0         $44.1
                                               -----         -----           ---           ---         -----
                                               -----         -----           ---           ---         -----
      Allowance for credit losses............  $13.5         $ 7.0         $--           $--           $20.5
                                               -----         -----           ---           ---         -----
                                               -----         -----           ---           ---         -----
Year ended December 31, 1993
  Valuation and qualifying accounts deducted
   from assets to which they apply:
 
      Allowance for doubtful accounts........  $36.2         $12.1         $ 0.4         $ 8.1         $40.6
                                               -----         -----           ---           ---         -----
                                               -----         -----           ---           ---         -----
      Allowance for credit losses............  $14.5         $--           $--           $ 1.0         $13.5
                                               -----         -----           ---           ---         -----
                                               -----         -----           ---           ---         -----
</TABLE>
 
- ------------------------
(a) Recoveries of accounts previously written off.
 
(b)  Primarily consists of uncollectible  accounts charged against the allowance
    accounts. Deductions  also  include the  impact  of translation  of  foreign
    currencies.
 
(c) Amount includes approximately $2.2 million of allowances related to the food
    science  business that  were classified  as net assets  held for  sale as of
    December 31, 1995.
 
                                       27
<PAGE>
    The  following trademarks,  found in  this report,  are among  those used by
Pfizer Inc.
 
CARDURA (DOXAZOSIN MESYLATE)
DIFLUCAN (FLUCONAZOLE)
ENABLE (TENIDAP)
ENABLEX (TENIDAP)
E5 (ANTI-ENDOTOXIN ANTIBODY)
GLUCOTROL XL (GLIPIZIDE GITS)
NORVASC (AMLODIPINE BESYLATE)
PROCARDIA XL (NIFEDIPINE GITS)
REACTINE (CETIRIZINE HCL)
UNASYN (SULBACTAM/AMPICILLIN)
ZITHROMAX (AZITHROMYCIN)
ZOLOFT (SERTRALINE)
ZYRTEC (CETIRIZINE HCL)
ADVOCIN (DANOFLOXACIN)
AVIAX (SEMDURAMICIN)
BANMINTH (PYRANTEL TARTRATE)
BOVISHIELD
COXISTAC (SALINOMYCIN)
DECTOMAX (DORAMECTIN)
LEUKOCELL
MECADOX (CARBADOX)
NEMEX (PYRANTEL PAMOATE)
RESPISURE
STAFAC (VIRGINIAMYCIN)
TERRAMYCIN (OXYTETRACYCLINE)
TERRAMYCIN LA-200 (OXYTETRACYCLINE)
TM/LA (OXYTETRACYCLINE)
PARATECT (MORANTEL TARTRATE)
POSISTAC (SALINOMYCIN)
VALBAZEN (ALBENDAZOLE)
VANGUARD
 
BAIN DE SOLEIL
BARBASOL
BARBASOL PURE SILK
BEN-GAY
DAILY CARE FROM DESITIN
DESITIN
DIFLUCAN ONE
GYNECURE
JUSCOAT
MIGRALEVE
PLAX
RID
TCP
TROSYD AF
UNISOM
UNISOM SLEEPGELS
VANART
VISINE
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-11
<SEQUENCE>2
<DESCRIPTION>COMPUTATION OF EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
                                                                      EXHIBIT 11
 
                      PFIZER INC. AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
                    COMPUTATION OF EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE
                                  (UNAUDITED)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                               YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                                             ---------------------------
                                                                               1995      1994     1993
                                                                             --------  --------  -------
                                                                             (MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE
                                                                                        DATA)
<S>                                                                          <C>       <C>       <C>
EARNINGS:
  Income from continuing operations........................................  $1,554.2  $1,276.7  $ 645.0
  Discontinued operations..................................................      18.7      21.7     12.5
                                                                             --------  --------  -------
  Net income...............................................................  $1,572.9  $1,298.4  $ 657.5
                                                                             --------  --------  -------
                                                                             --------  --------  -------
PRIMARY:
  Weighted average shares:
      Weighted average number of common shares outstanding.................     614.5     611.6    631.0
      Common share equivalents (a).........................................      15.0       8.8      9.8
                                                                             --------  --------  -------
      Weighted average number of common shares and common share
       equivalents.........................................................     629.5     620.4    640.8
                                                                             --------  --------  -------
                                                                             --------  --------  -------
  Earnings per common share:
      Income from continuing operations....................................  $   2.47  $   2.05  $  1.01
      Discontinued operations..............................................       .03       .04      .02
                                                                             --------  --------  -------
      Net income per common share..........................................  $   2.50  $   2.09  $  1.03
                                                                             --------  --------  -------
                                                                             --------  --------  -------
FULLY DILUTED (b):
  Weighted average shares:
      Weighted average number of common shares outstanding.................     614.5     611.6    631.0
      Common share equivalents and other dilutive securities...............      16.6       9.6     10.2
                                                                             --------  --------  -------
      Weighted average number of common shares and common share
       equivalents.........................................................     631.1     621.2    641.2
                                                                             --------  --------  -------
                                                                             --------  --------  -------
  Earnings per common share:
      Income from continuing operations....................................  $   2.46  $   2.05  $  1.01
      Discontinued operations..............................................       .03       .04      .02
                                                                             --------  --------  -------
      Net income per common share..........................................  $   2.49  $   2.09  $  1.03
                                                                             --------  --------  -------
                                                                             --------  --------  -------
</TABLE>
 
- ------------------------
(a) Common share equivalents applicable to stock option plans.
 
(b) This  calculation  is  submitted  in  accordance  with  Regulation  S-K item
    601(b)(11) although  not required  by  footnote 2  to  paragraph 14  of  APB
    Opinion No. 15 because it results in dilution of less than 3%.
 
Note:  In  April 1995,  the Company announced  a two-for-one stock  split in the
       form of  a 100  percent stock  dividend  effective on  June 30,  1995  to
       shareholders  of record on June  1, 1995. The above  common share and per
       share data have been adjusted for this two-for-one split.
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-12
<SEQUENCE>3
<DESCRIPTION>COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CNARGES
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
                                                                      EXHIBIT 12
 
                      PFIZER INC. AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
               COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                           YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                                              --------------------------------------------------
                                                                1995       1994      1993      1992       1991
                                                              --------   --------   ------   --------   --------
                                                                     (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS, EXCEPT RATIOS)
<S>                                                           <C>        <C>        <C>      <C>        <C>
Determination of Earnings:
  Income from continuing operations before provision for
   taxes on income, minority interests and cumulative effect
   of accounting changes....................................  $2,299.2   $1,830.5   $835.3   $1,541.0   $  913.2
  Less:
    Minority interests......................................       7.0        4.6      2.6        2.7        3.2
    Undistributed earnings/(losses) of unconsolidated
     subsidiaries...........................................      (0.3)      (0.7)     0.7        8.5        0.8
                                                              --------   --------   ------   --------   --------
  Adjusted income...........................................   2,292.5    1,826.6    832.0    1,529.8      909.2
    Fixed charges...........................................     231.9      158.4    135.6      130.1      155.2
                                                              --------   --------   ------   --------   --------
      Total earnings as defined.............................  $2,524.4   $1,985.0   $967.6   $1,659.9   $1,064.4
                                                              --------   --------   ------   --------   --------
                                                              --------   --------   ------   --------   --------
Fixed charges
  Interest expense (a)......................................  $  192.5   $  126.9   $106.5   $  103.4   $  130.1
  Rents (b).................................................      39.4       31.5     29.1       26.7       25.1
                                                              --------   --------   ------   --------   --------
    Fixed charges...........................................     231.9      158.4    135.6      130.1      155.2
  Capitalized interest......................................      12.4       14.7     14.0       12.2        8.0
                                                              --------   --------   ------   --------   --------
    Total fixed charges.....................................  $  244.3   $  173.1   $149.6   $  142.3   $  163.2
                                                              --------   --------   ------   --------   --------
                                                              --------   --------   ------   --------   --------
Ratio of earnings to fixed charges..........................      10.3       11.5      6.5       11.7        6.5
                                                              --------   --------   ------   --------   --------
                                                              --------   --------   ------   --------   --------
</TABLE>
 
- ------------------------
(a) Interest expense includes amortization of debt discount and expenses.
 
(b) Rents  included in the  computation consist of  one-third of rental expense,
    which the Company  believes to  be a  conservative estimate  of an  interest
    factor in its leases, which are not material.
 
Note:  In  December 1995, the  Company agreed to sell  substantially all the net
       assets of  the food  science  business. As  a  result, the  food  science
       business  has been  reported as  a discontinued  operation. The  sale was
       completed in January 1996. The computations  of the ratio of earnings  to
       fixed  charges  for the  years 1991  through 1994  have been  restated to
       remove the income from operations of the Company's food science business.
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-13.(A)
<SEQUENCE>4
<DESCRIPTION>PORTIONS OF THE ANNUAL REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

     Financial Contents

30   Financial Review

38   Responsibility for Financial Statements and
     System of Internal Control

39   Audit Committee's Report

39   Independent Auditors' Report

     Financial Statements:

40   Segment Information

41   Geographic Data

42   Consolidated Statement of Income

43   Consolidated Statement of Shareholders' Equity

44   Consolidated Balance Sheet

45   Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows

46   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

59   Quarterly Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited)

60   Financial Summary (1985-1995)

(The table below was represented by a graph in the printed Annual Report)

Earnings Per Common Share
(dollars)

$1.06         $1.20          $1.03          $2.09          $2.50
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
1991          1992           1993           1994           1995

In 1993, excluding after-tax net charges for divestitures, restructuring and 
unusual items, earnings per common share would have been $1.85.

The 1995 increase in earnings per common share reflects strong worldwide 
sales growth complemented by continuing improvements in operating 
efficiencies.

(The table below was represented by a graph in the printed Annual Report.)

Cash Dividends Paid Per Common Share
(dollars)

$.66          $.74           $.84           $.94           $1.04
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
1991          1992           1993           1994           1995

The 1995 cash dividends paid represented the 28th consecutive year of 
dividend increases.

Financial Review
Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies

Significant Events Affecting Comparability

Restructuring initiatives, as well as various acquisitions and divestitures over
the past several years, were taken in order to better position the Company as a
research-based, global health care company. As a result, financial data
comparability is affected by the following:

n    In January 1995, the Company acquired SmithKline Beecham's animal health
business (SBAH) for approximately $1.5 billion. SBAH, which was a world leader
in animal vaccines and companion animal health products, had products and a
presence in countries that complemented the Company's animal health business.

n    In March 1995, the Company acquired NAMIC U.S.A. Corporation (NAMIC), a
manufacturer of accessories for angioplasty procedures, in a stock transaction
valued at approximately $170 million.

n    In April 1995, the Company announced a two-for-one stock split in the form
of a 100 percent stock dividend effective in June 1995. Prior years' data have
been restated to reflect this stock split.

n    In August 1995, Bain de Soleil skin care products were acquired from the
Procter & Gamble Company.

n    In the fourth quarter of 1995, the Company entered into an agreement to
sell substantially all of the net assets of its worldwide food science business
to Cultor Ltd., a publicly held international company based in Finland. As a
result, the Company's food science segment has been reported as a discontinued
operation. The sale was completed in January 1996.

n    In 1993, the Company recorded pre-tax charges of approximately $745 million
and $56 million (excluding approximately $11 million directly related to
discontinued operations) for certain restructuring and unusual items. These
charges covered restructuring costs, including personnel reductions and the
writedown of certain tangible assets as well as intangible assets whose carrying
value would not have been recovered through future cash flows.

n    In April 1993, the Company sold its remaining 40% interest in Minerals
Technologies Inc., a formerly wholly-owned subsidiary comprised of the Company's
specialty minerals businesses. This sale resulted in a pre-tax gain of
approximately $60 million. 

See the footnotes "Acquisitions" beginning on page 54, "Common Stock" on page 
53, "Discontinued Operations" on page 55 and "Divestitures, Restructuring and 
Unusual Items" beginning on page 49.

Overview of Consolidated Operating Results

In 1995, net sales from continuing operations exceeded $10.0 billion for the
first time in the Company's history (an increase of 26% compared with 1994).
These results continue to reflect the

<PAGE>

benefits of the Company's innovative research and development (R&D) efforts,
which have produced a broad product pipeline. In 1995, R&D expenditures exceeded
$1.4 billion, an increase of 28% over 1994. In 1995, selling, informational and
administrative expenses, as a percentage of sales, decreased 1.4 percentage
points compared with 1994, partially due to the Company's continuous improvement
and restructuring programs.

In 1995, income from continuing operations was $1,554.2 million, an increase of
22% as compared with 1994. Net income, including discontinued operations, in
1995 was $1,572.9 million ($2.50 per share), an increase of 21% (20% per share)
as compared with $1,298.4 million ($2.09 per share) in 1994. This increase
reflects strong sales growth augmented by improvements in operating efficiencies
and was achieved despite an increase in the Company's effective tax rate from
30% to 32.1%.

(The table below was represented by a graph in the printed Annual Report.)

Income from Continuing Operations
(millions of dollars)

$699          $1,098         $645           $1,277         $1,554
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
1991          1992           1993           1994           1995

In 1993, excluding after-tax net charges for divestitures, restructuring and 
unusual items, income from continuing operations would have been $1,163 
million.

The strong growth in income from continuing operations of 22% in 1995 was 
achieved while continuing to invest aggressively in research and development.

Net Sales

Net sales increased $2,044.1 and $815.5 million, or 26% and 11% in 1995 and
1994, respectively. Excluding the effect of the SBAH acquisition, net sales for
1995 increased 18% compared with 1994. The consolidated net sales increases in
1995 and 1994 were primarily driven by volume increases. (There was no material
price impact on either the 1995 or 1994 net sales growth.) The U.S. and
international markets reflected net sales increases of 21% and 31% in 1995 and
11% and 12% in 1994, respectively. In 1995, the Company registered net sales in
excess of $10 million in each of 45 countries outside the U.S., with no single
country, other than the U.S. and Japan, contributing more than 10% to total net
sales.

Several analyses of the Company's net sales by business segment follow:

Segment Net Sales Analysis
                                                                 % Increase/
                                                                  (Decrease)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     (millions of dollars)      1995        1994        1993    95/94    94/93
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Health Care            $8,408.6    $6,963.0    $6,210.3       21       12
     Animal Health           1,219.5       605.3       578.0      101        5
     Consumer Health Care      393.3       409.0       373.5       (4)      10
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
       Total               $10,021.4    $7,977.3    $7,161.8       26       11
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Diversification of Net Sales by Business

                               % of Consolidated Net Sales
- ------------------------------------------------------------
                                1995        1994        1993
- ------------------------------------------------------------
     Health Care                  84          87          87
     Animal Health                12           8           8
     Consumer Health Care          4           5           5
- ------------------------------------------------------------
       Consolidated              100         100         100
- ------------------------------------------------------------

(The table below was represented by a graph in the printed Annual Report)

Composition of Net Sales Growth

              Volume         Price          Currency
1993            4%             2%             -2%
- --------------------------------------------------
1994           11              0               0
- --------------------------------------------------
1995           24             -1               3
- --------------------------------------------------

Increases in volume have been the major contributors to sales growth in each 
of the last three years.

Percentage Change in Net Sales

                               Total               Analysis of Change
                                 %          -------------------------------
                               Change         Volume     Price     Currency
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Health Care
            1995 vs. 1994          21           19        (1)        3
            1994 vs. 1993          12           12         0         0
     Animal Health
            1995 vs. 1994         101          102        (1)        0
            1994 vs. 1993           5            3         1         1
     Consumer Health Care
            1995 vs. 1994          (4)          (2)        4        (6)
            1994 vs. 1993          10            9         1         0
     Consolidated
            1995 vs. 1994          26           24        (1)        3
            1994 vs. 1993          11           11         0         0
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Net sales for the health care segment reflected a 22% and a 13% increase in
worldwide pharmaceutical sales in 1995 and 1994, respectively. The 1995 increase
in worldwide pharmaceutical sales reflected 17% growth in the U.S. and 27%
overseas. Exchange fluctuations, principally the relative weakness of the dollar
as compared with the yen and major European currencies in 1995 versus 1994,
increased worldwide pharmaceutical net sales by 3% and overseas pharmaceutical
net sales by 7%.

<PAGE>


The following table shows percentage net sales growth of the Company's major
pharmaceuticals:
Percentage Change in Net Sales-Major Pharmaceuticals

                                             % Increase/(Decrease)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
                                              95/94      94/93
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
     Cardiovasculars:
            Norvasc                             65        85
            Procardia XL                        (4)        0
            Cardura                             32        27
     Anti-Infectives:
            Diflucan                            22        14
            Zithromax                           97        43
            Unasyn                              15        (5)
     Central Nervous System Agents:
            Zoloft                              44        55
     Anti-Inflammatories:
            Feldene                              1       (16)
     Antidiabetes Agents:
            Glucotrol XL                       254         *
            Glucotrol                          (55)      (25)
*Calculation not meaningful.
- ------------------------------------------------------------------

Worldwide net sales of three of the Company's pharmaceutical products exceeded
$1 billion in 1995: Norvasc-$1.3 billion, Procardia XL-$1.1 billion and
Zoloft-$1.0 billion. Additionally, 1995 net sales of Diflucan were approximately
$880 million. In 1995, Procardia XL continued to be the largest selling
cardiovascular drug in the U.S. as demand for the product remained strong.

Aggregate worldwide net sales of the six pharmaceutical products launched in 
the U.S. during the 1990s-Norvasc, Zoloft, Diflucan, Cardura, Zithromax and 
Glucotrol XL-represented 41%, 34% and 27% of consolidated net sales for the 
years 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively. Net sales of these products 
increased 48% and 44% in 1995 and 1994, respectively. Of these six major new 
products, only Cardura's patent will expire before 2003.

Net sales of Feldene and Glucotrol have been affected by a combination of 
generic competition and new competitive brand-name products.

The 1990 Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act included a provision requiring
pharmaceutical companies to rebate a portion of revenues from pharmaceutical
products dispensed to state Medicaid recipients. Medicaid rebates and related
state programs reduced net sales by $85, $74 and $70 million in 1995, 1994 and
1993, respectively. In addition, the Company provided approximately $80, $56 and
$51 million in discounts to the federal government in 1995, 1994 and 1993,
respectively. Performance-based contracts with several customers in the U.S.
that reduced net sales growth were offset by volume increases for 1995 and 1994.

Net sales of the Hospital Products Group (HPG) increased 16% and 6% in 1995 and
1994, respectively. Net sales for 1995 reflect the strength of new product
rollouts, the NAMIC acquisition and favorable exchange effects. Sales of the
Schneider business increased by 31% during the year primarily due to the launch
of new angioplasty and angiography catheters and strong demand for stents. In
addition, the acquisition in March 1995 of NAMIC, which designs, manufactures
and markets a broad range of single-patient use medical products, primarily for
the diagnosis and treatment of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease,
contributed 5 percentage points to HPG's net sales increase. Exchange
fluctuations contributed 4 percentage points to HPG's net sales growth in 1995.
In 1994, the HPG business benefited from new product introductions and from the
success of its coronary catheters and stents, although its sales trends were
tempered by overall market conditions. The HPG business was adversely affected
in 1993 by events influencing the industry in general, principally the deferral
of medical procedures and changes in purchasing practices, including shifts to
lower-cost products and reduced hospital inventories.

Net sales in the animal health segment increased 101% in 1995 due to the 
sales volume contribution of the SBAH acquisition. In addition, net sales of 
Dectomax, the innovative livestock antiparasitic developed by the Company, 
increased 69% in 1995 due, in part, to the recent launches in major Western 
European countries, including the United Kingdom, Germany and France. 
Dectomax, Aviax (a poultry antiparasitic) and Advocin (a quinoline 
antibiotic) are expected to be broadly launched around the world in the next 
few years and are expected to be the key sources of growth for the animal 
health business for the remainder of the decade. Animal health net sales 
increased 5% in 1994 and reflected the strong performance of Dectomax, 
particularly in Latin America, where its sales increased 21%.

Net sales in the consumer health care segment in 1995 declined 4% as compared
with 1994 due to increased private-label competition in the U.S. for existing
brands and the impact of the devaluation of the Mexican peso. These factors were
partially offset by launches of over-the-counter products in a number of
countries including the successful launch of the antihistamine, Reactine, in
Canada. In 1994, net sales in the consumer health care segment increased 10%,
reflecting improved U.S. market share for Desitin, Unisom, BenGay and Rid, line
extensions of certain existing products and international expansion.

<PAGE>


An analysis of percentage changes in reported net sales in the U.S. and
international markets by business segment follows:

United States Operations
                                    % Increase/(Decrease)
                                    in Net Sales
- ----------------------------------------------------
                                   95/94     94/93
- ----------------------------------------------------
     Health Care                    17         12
     Animal Health                 148         (1)
     Consumer Health Care           (9)         4
          Total U.S. Operations     21         11
- ----------------------------------------------------

International Operations
                                    % Increase
                                    in Net Sales
- -----------------------------------------------------
                                   95/94     94/93
- -----------------------------------------------------
     Health Care                    25         13
     Animal Health                  82          7
     Consumer Health Care            7         22
          Total International
            Operations              31         12
- -----------------------------------------------------

Geographically, the Company's business is diversified, as shown in the following
table:

Diversification by Geographic Area
                              % of Consolidated Net Sales
- ---------------------------------------------------------
                              1995   1994    1993
- --------------------------------------------------
     U.S.                       51     53      53
- --------------------------------------------------
     Europe                     25     22      22
     Asia                       15     15      15
     Canada/Latin America        7      8       7
     Africa/Middle East          2      2       3
- --------------------------------------------------
          International         49     47      47
- --------------------------------------------------
             Consolidated      100    100     100
- --------------------------------------------------

(The table below was represented by a graph in the printed Annual Report)

Research and Development Expenditures
(millions of dollars)

$745          $851           $961           $1,126         $1,442
- -----------------------------------------------------------------
1991          1992           1993            1994           1995

Research and development expenditures have increased at a compound annual 
growth rate of almost 18% over the past five years.  The Company now has 15 
new chemical entities in late-stage development.

Product Developments

The Company continues to invest in R&D to develop both new products and
additional uses for existing products. Following are certain significant
regulatory actions that occurred in 1995:

n    In February 1995, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved the
Company's hypertensive agent Cardura for the treatment of benign prostatic
hyperplasia (BPH), an enlargement of the prostate gland in men. Cardura was
approved for the treatment of BPH in many major European countries and
applications are pending in several other countries.

n     In August 1995, the Company was informed by the FDA that Zoloft, the 
Company's antidepressant, is approvable for the treatment of patients with 
obsessive-compulsive disorder.

n    In September 1995, the Company received an approvable letter from the FDA
related to its antihistamine Zyrtec (cetirizine HCl) for pediatric use.

n    In October 1995, the FDA approved a pediatric version of Zithromax, the
Company's broad-spectrum antibiotic.

n    In December 1995, the Company was informed by the FDA that the antibiotic
Zithromax is approvable for certain sexually transmitted diseases.

n    In December 1995, the FDA granted marketing clearance to the antihistamine
Zyrtec (cetirizine HCl) for the treatment of allergies, itching and hives.
Zyrtec, the most widely prescribed antihistamine in Europe, is currently
marketed worldwide by the Belgian company, UCB S.A. and is licensed to the
Company for the U.S. and Canada. Pfizer and UCB Pharma, a subsidiary of UCB,
will copromote Zyrtec in the U.S.

The table below lists the Company's pending New Drug Applications (NDAs) and the
related filing dates with the FDA:

- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Product        Indication(s)                                Date Filed
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Zithromax      Lower respiratory tract infection-
                    pediatric                                    December 1995
     Zithromax      Mycobacterium avium complex                  December 1995
     Zithromax      Atypical pneumonia                           December 1995
     Zoloft         Panic disorder                               December 1995
     Norvasc        Safety-label change for treatment            April 1995
                    of hypertension and angina among
                    those with congestive heart failure
     Zithromax      Certain sexually transmitted diseases        December 1994
     tenidap        Osteo- and rheumatoid arthritis              December 1993
     Unasyn         Injectable antibiotic-pediatric              November 1993
     Zyrtec         Pediatric                                    January 1993
     Zoloft         Obsessive-compulsive disorder                May 1992
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Company currently has 15 new chemical entities in late-stage development and
48 other compounds in early development.


Components of Net Income

The components of net income, expressed as a percentage of net sales, for the
years 1995, 1994 and 1993 are reflected in the following table:

<PAGE>

Analysis of the Consolidated Statement of Income

                                                               % Increase/
                                                                (Decrease)
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
     (millions of  dollars)       1995       1994       1993   95/94  94/93
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Net sales               $10,021.4   $7,977.3   $7,161.8      26     11
     Cost of sales           $ 2,164.1   $1,722.2   $1,559.0      26     10
       % of net sales             21.6%      21.6%      21.8%

     Selling,
       informational
       and administra-
       tive expenses         $ 3,854.7   $3,184.1   $3,005.7      21      6
        % of net sales            38.5%      39.9%      42.0%

     R&D expenses            $ 1,442.4   $1,126.1   $  961.3      28     17
       % of net sales             14.4%      14.1%      13.4%
     Divestitures,
       restructuring
       and unusual
       items-net                     -          -   $  740.6       *      *
       % of net sales                -          -       10.3%

     Other deduc-
       tions-net             $   261.0   $  114.4   $   59.9     128     91
       % of net sales              2.6%       1.5%        .8%
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Income from continu-
       ing operations
       before taxes and
       minority interests    $ 2,299.2   $1,830.5   $  835.3      26    119
       % of net sales             22.9%      22.9%      11.7%

     Taxes on income         $   738.0   $  549.2    $ 187.7      34    193
       Effective tax rate         32.1%      30.0%      22.5%
     Minority interests      $     7.0   $    4.6   $    2.6      52     77
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Income from con-
       tinuing operations    $ 1,554.2   $1,276.7   $  645.0      22     98
       % of net sales             15.5%      16.0%       9.0%

     Discontinued
       operations-net        $    18.7   $   21.7   $   12.5     (14)    74
       % of net sales               .2%        .3%        .2%
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Net income              $ 1,572.9   $1,298.4   $  657.5      21     97
       % of net sales             15.7%      16.3%       9.2%
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
     *Calculation not meaningful.

Cost of sales, expressed as a percentage of net sales, was the same in 1995 and
1994. The 1995 results were primarily attributable to favorable product mix as
well as the benefit of reengineering of manufacturing operations, including the
shutdown of a number of overseas plants, offset by lower production margins for
SBAH relative to the Company overall and the impact of purchase accounting,
mostly relating to the acquired SBAH inventories. The decrease in cost of sales
as a percentage of net sales in 1994, as compared with 1993, was attributable to
the Company's cost-containment program and favorable business and product mix
reflecting continued growth in the pharmaceutical business.

Selling, informational and administrative expenses (SI&A), as a percentage of
net sales, continued to decline in 1995 and 1994 partially due to the beneficial
impact of the Company's continuous improvement and restructuring programs.
Selling and informational expenses in 1995, as a percentage of net sales,
decreased versus the prior year due to the fact that net sales grew more rapidly
than these expenses. The absolute increases in SI&A in 1995 versus 1994 and 1994
versus 1993 were primarily due to the rollout of new products and support for
the newly launched products.

In response to the changes in the health care environment, the Company adopted a
strategy in 1994, which continued throughout 1995, that focuses on the diverse
needs of managed care customers and decision makers. SI&A includes expenses
incurred in communicating scientific, medical and clinical information about the
Company's various products to the medical community and others. Health care
information is also communicated by means of Company-sponsored medical symposia
and conventions, as well as through distribution of informative literature
concerning the Company's products. Advertising and promotion expenses totaled
$687.5 and $609.2 million for 1995 and 1994, respectively. Advertising expenses
include costs associated with the production and purchase of print space in
magazines and journals and media time on radio and television of approximately
$200 million in both 1995 and 1994. A significant portion of these advertising
expenditures are for the Company's consumer health care products.

R&D expenses reflected a 19% compound growth rate from 1993 through 1995. Health
care R&D expenses, expressed as a percentage of health care net sales, were
15.4%, 14.9% and 14.3% for

<PAGE>

1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively. The increase in 1995 as compared with prior
years reflected the rapid advancement of a number of drug candidates in
late-stage development. In 1996, the Company plans to spend about $1.7 billion
on R&D.

Other deductions-net increased $146.6 million in 1995 primarily due to the
amortization of goodwill and other intangibles recorded as a result of the SBAH
acquisition, additional interest expense on borrowings to finance the
acquisition, a provision for various litigation issues, the impact of
unfavorable changes in foreign exchange in hyperinflationary markets and charges
resulting from decisions to withdraw from a product line and to modify certain
distribution relationships in HPG. Partially offsetting these events was the
recognition of income related to the completion of all appeals in a patent
infringement case with SciMed Life Systems, Inc. In 1994, the increase of $54.5
million in Other deductions-net was due to a decrease in interest income because
of changes in the Company's capital structure and an increase in interest
expense as a result of changes in the scope and nature of the Company's foreign
exchange hedging program and higher interest rates. For further details, see the
footnote "Other Deductions-Net" on page 49.

The Company exceeded its goal of increasing income from continuing operations
before taxes and other deductions-net, expressed as a percentage of net sales,
by one percentage point in 1995 as compared to 1994. This increase reflects the
success of the Company's new products, coupled with the beneficial impact of
continuous improvement and restructuring programs.

The effective tax rate increased from 30% in 1994 to 32.1% in 1995. This
increase was attributable to the continuing reduction in the tax benefit from
the Company's operations in Puerto Rico as the result of the enactment of the
Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993, the expiration of the R&D tax credit
during 1995 and changes in the mix of income by country. In the fourth quarter
of 1995, the Company reduced the effective tax rate from the previously assumed
33% to 32.1% due to changes in U.S. Treasury regulations governing Internal
Revenue Code Section 861 dealing with allocation rules for R&D expenses.

The Company has received and is protesting assessments from the U.S. and Belgian
tax authorities. For further details, see the footnote "Taxes on Income"
beginning on page 50.

The following table shows profit/(loss) by business segment for the years 1995,
1994 and 1993:

Segment Profit
                                                                 % Increase/
                                                                  (Decrease)
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
     (millions of dollars)     1995        1994        1993    95/94    94/93
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Health Care            $2,547.8    $1,976.6    $1,129.9     29       75
     Animal Health              96.9        47.4        (5.8)   104        *
     Consumer Health Care       36.2        34.1      (102.3)     6        *
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
        Total               $2,680.9    $2,058.1    $1,021.8     30      101
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
     *Calculation not meaningful.

For further details, see the footnote "Segment Information and Geographic Data"
on page 58.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

Company operations in 1995 provided significant positive cash flows which,
supplemented by the ability to issue commercial paper as well as to maintain
other worldwide credit facilities, provided adequate liquidity to meet the
Company's operational needs. Cash and cash equivalents and short-term
investments, which are principal measures of liquidity, amounted to $1.5, $2.0
and $1.2 billion at December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.

The following table presents certain measures of liquidity and capital resources
for the years 1995, 1994 and 1993:
                                                    1995     1994        1993
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Working capital (millions of dollars)        $965.2   $962.5    $1,289.6
     Current ratio                                1.19:1   1.20:1      1.37:1
     Debt to total capitalization                     34%      40%         31%
     Shareholders' equity per
       common share*                               $8.90    $7.10       $6.22
     Days of sales outstanding                        60       60          63
     Months of inventory on hand                     9.2      8.6         8.5
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     *Represents shareholders' equity divided by the actual number of common
      shares outstanding.

The decrease in the percentage of debt to total capitalization in 1995 versus
1994 was primarily due to higher shareholders' equity resulting from growth in
net income. The significant increase in the percentage of debt to total
capitalization in 1994 versus 1993 was primarily due to share purchases and an
increase in short-term borrowings.

The increase in shareholders' equity per common share for 1995 and 1994 was due
to the Company's enhanced profitability, partially offset in 1994 by the stock
purchase program.

<PAGE>

The table below summarizes the Company's cash flows from operating, investing
and financing activities:

- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
     (millions of dollars)               1995          1994           1993
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Cash provided by/(used in):
       Operating activities         $ 1,821.4      $1,488.5      $ 1,263.0
       Investing activities          (2,342.8)       (840.3)        (196.9)
       Financing activities            (519.1)         61.9       (1,567.0)
     Effect of exchange rate
       changes on cash and
       cash equivalents                 (14.7)         19.0          (26.8)
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Net (decrease)/increase in
       cash and cash equivalents    $(1,055.2)     $  729.1      $  (527.7)
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

Operating Activities

The increases in cash flows from operations in both 1995 and 1994 primarily
reflect growth in income generated by the continued rollout of new
pharmaceutical products and additional indications for existing pharmaceutical
products.

In 1993, the Company initiated a program which recognized the need to
restructure its global operations. This worldwide restructuring program included
the consolidation of manufacturing facilities with the planned elimination of 4
facilities in the U.S. and 32 facilities internationally, the demolition of
buildings resulting from the consolidation, reconfiguration and rehabilitation
of remaining facilities and the consolidation of distribution and administrative
organizations and infrastructures, including the consolidation of U.S.
distribution facilities from 6 to 2 and the consolidation of finance
organizations in Europe from 34 to 6. Such actions were expected to result in a
reduction of approximately 3,000 employees.

Through December 31, 1995, completed restructuring initiatives reduced the work
force by approximately 1,600 people and resulted in the closing of 18
facilities. The annualized benefit of efficiencies resulting from completed
efforts was approximately $86 million. The full implementation of such plans is
anticipated to lower annual operating costs by $130 million and to be
substantially completed by the end of 1996. To date, there have been no
significant changes in estimates of the cost of the plan. For further
information, including the components of the charges, see the "Divestitures,
Restructuring and Unusual Items" footnote beginning on page 49.

Cash outlays for 1995, 1994 and 1993 related to the restructuring totaled
$121.4, $88.1 and $38.5 million, respectively. Cash outlays in 1996, which will
be funded through operations, are expected to be approximately $140 million.

Investing Activities

Cash used in investing activities increased $1,502.5 million in 1995 primarily
due to the acquisition of SBAH, which was substantially financed by the issuance
of the Company's commercial paper. Additionally, an increase in the purchases of
short-term investments was largely offset by a decrease in the loan portfolio of
the Company's banking operation. Cash used in investing activities increased
$643.4 million in 1994 primarily due to the increase in short-term investments,
the reduction in the liquidation of loans and long-term investments by financial
subsidiaries and the fact that there were no sales of businesses in 1994.

Capital expenditures are primarily funded through operating activities. In 1996,
the Company anticipates capital expenditures will be comparable to the prior
year, including approximately $200 million for research and development
projects. The Company completed a major pharmaceutical capacity replacement
project at its Groton facility in 1995 at a cost of approximately $185 million.

Financing Activities

Cash used in financing activities increased by $581.0 million in 1995 as
compared with 1994. This increase was principally related to a decrease in
short-term borrowings versus an increase last year, plus higher dividends. This
change was partially offset by an increase in the proceeds from long-term debt,
primarily resulting from a sale-and-repurchase financing, a decrease in the
Company's purchases of its common stock and an increase in proceeds from stock
option transactions. The increase in cash provided by financing activities in
1994 of $1,628.9 million from 1993 related to higher levels of short-term
borrowings used to fund working capital needs as well as certain short-term
investment opportunities. In addition, cash used for the completion of stock
purchase programs decreased in 1994 as compared with 1993. Share purchases were
funded through cash generated by operating activities.

Cash dividends paid to shareholders in 1995 were $658.5 million compared with
$594.6 million in 1994, reflecting an 11% increase in the annual dividend rate
from $.94 to $1.04 per common share.

In December 1994, the Company announced that it planned to purchase up to 4.5
million shares of its common stock in order to fund its NAMIC acquisition. Under
this plan, approximately 2.5 and 2.0 million shares were purchased in the open
market at a cost of approximately $108.5 and $74.8 million in 1995 and 1994,
respectively. 

In February 1993, the Company announced a program to purchase up to 40 
million shares of its common stock in the open market or in privately 
negotiated transactions. Under this program, 14.9 and 25.0 million shares 
were repurchased in the open market at a cost of approximately $436.4 and 
$804.0 million in 1994 and 1993, respectively, completing this share purchase 
program. These shares are available for use in the Company's employee benefit 
plans and for general corporate purposes.

<PAGE>

The Company maintains lines of credit and revolving-credit agreements with a
select group of banks and other financial intermediaries. Its major unused lines
of credit totaled approximately $1.2 billion at December 31, 1995.

An indicator of the Company's financial strength is that its senior debt has
been rated Aaa by Moody's Investors Services (Moody's) and AAA by Standard and
Poor's (S&P)-their highest ratings-for the past ten years. Moody's and S&P are
the major corporate rating organizations.

Banking Operation

The Company's international banking operation, Pfizer International Bank Europe
(PIBE), operates under a full banking license from the Central Bank of Ireland.
PIBE extends credit to financially strong borrowers largely through U.S. dollar
loans made primarily for the short and medium term, with floating interest
rates. Generally, loans are made on an unsecured basis. When deemed appropriate,
guarantees and certain covenants may be obtained as a condition to the extension
of credit. To reduce credit risk, PIBE has established credit approval
guidelines, borrowing limits and monitoring procedures. Credit risk is further
reduced through an active policy of diversification with respect to borrower,
industry and geographic location. The net income of PIBE is affected by
fluctuations in market interest rates because of repricing and maturity
mismatches between its interest-sensitive assets and liabilities. When PIBE is
asset sensitive (more assets repricing in a given period than liabilities), net
income would benefit in a period of increasing interest rates. PIBE's asset and
liability management reflects its liquidity, interest-rate outlook and general
market conditions. The interest-rate sensitivity of PIBE's largely U.S.
dollar-denominated floating-rate asset portfolio is largely offset by the
corresponding interest-rate sensitivity inherent in the Company's U.S.
dollar-denominated short-term debt. PIBE enters into interest-rate swaps,
currency swaps and forward-rate agreements as vehicles to manage the
interest-rate sensitivity of its portfolio.

The following table summarizes the composition of the loan portfolios, the most
significant of the interest-earning assets held by the international banking
operations, at November 30, 1995, 1994 and 1993:
Borrowers


     (millions of dollars)               1995      1994           1993
     ------------------------------------------------------------------
     Commercial and industrial         $255.2    $526.3         $569.1
     Government                          97.6     139.7           91.9
     Financial institutions             103.9     120.9          146.6
     ------------------------------------------------------------------
       Total                           $456.7    $786.9         $807.6
     ------------------------------------------------------------------

Maturities


     (millions of dollars)               1995      1994           1993
     ------------------------------------------------------------------
     Within one year                   $289.2    $361.3         $456.9
     One to five years                  167.5     425.6          350.7
     ------------------------------------------------------------------
       Total                           $456.7    $786.9         $807.6
     ------------------------------------------------------------------

The following table shows the percentage of interest-earning assets of PIBE
(including interest-bearing deposits, loans, Eurosecurities and securities
purchased under a resale agreement) by country of the borrower, depository,
issuer or guarantor, where the total for such country is 3% or more of the total
assets of the international banking operations:

                                             % of Banking Operations
                                                    Total Assets
     ------------------------------------------------------------------
                                          1995      1994          1993
     ------------------------------------------------------------------
     U.K.                                  29        19             19
     Switzerland                           22        12              7
     Italy                                 10         7              6
     Netherlands                           10        11              9
     Sweden                                 7         6              4
     Denmark                                6         8             12
     France                                 6         8             12
     Norway                                 6         -              -
     Germany                                3         4              5
     Canada                                 -         5             13
     Spain                                  -         -              5
     U.S.                                   -        17              8
     ------------------------------------------------------------------

The 1995 data reflect a reduced loan portfolio effected to bring PIBE's balance
sheet into line with its business needs. PIBE continues to have S&P's highest
short-term rating of A1+.

Prospective Information

Subsequent Event

In January 1996, the Company completed the acquisition of the Leibinger
Companies, a leader in the manufacture of specialty surgical instruments and
implantable devices used in skull, jaw, facial, hand and foot surgery.

<PAGE>

Competition and the Health Care Environment

In the United States, many of the Company's pharmaceutical products are subject
to increased competition as managed care groups, institutions and government
agencies seek price discounts. Federal and state government efforts to reduce
Medicare and Medicaid expenses are expected to increase the use of managed care
and to offer incentives to beneficiaries to join these plans. This may result in
managed care influencing prescription decisions for a larger segment of the
population. International operations are also subject to increasing degrees of
government regulations.

It is expected that pressures on pricing and operating results will continue in
1996 as a result of this market competition and environment.

Feldene and Glucotrol have been subject to generic competition since 1992 and
1994, respectively. The majority of the unfavorable impact on Feldene sales was
felt in 1993, 1994 and 1995. The combined U.S. net sales of these products were
$95, $203 and $308 million in 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively. 

In mid-1993, the FDA approved an NDA for a competitor's sustained-release 
form of nifedipine for the treatment of hypertension. This product uses a 
different delivery system from the patented technology used in Procardia XL, 
the Company's product, which is approved for the treatment of hypertension 
and angina and which has a delivery system that is patent-protected until 
2003. Other forms of sustained-release nifedipine have been reported to be in 
various stages of development by other companies. It is not possible to 
predict the timing and impact of possible future competition on sales of 
Procardia XL.

Calcium Channel Blockers

During 1995, reports from several nonclinical studies raised questions about the
safety of calcium channel blockers, particularly the Company's immediate-release
nifedipine capsules, sold as Procardia. In January 1996, the FDA's advisory
panel, after carefully reviewing all of the data on the use of calcium channel
blockers, recommended that labeling for immediate-release nifedipine
capsules-approved only to treat a form of angina-be clarified. However, the
Advisory Panel specifically noted that there was no data which questioned the
safety of the newer sustained-release and intrinsically long-acting calcium
channel blockers, such as the Company's Procardia XL and Norvasc, which are
approved for both hypertension and angina and are prescribed for the vast
majority of patients on calcium channel blockers. The safety and effectiveness
of these new long-acting calcium channel blockers in lowering blood pressure and
controlling angina are supported by a large body of data from numerous studies
and the daily clinical experiences of physicians around the world.

It is not possible to predict the impact, if any, of these studies and the 
FDA panel's recommendations on its future sales, but the Company does not 
believe that any impact will have a material adverse effect on its financial 
position or results of operations.

World Trade Organization (WTO)

In December 1994, the U.S. Congress ratified the WTO treaty, previously known as
the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. A key provision of the treaty
relates to intellectual property protection. The 10-year transition period
relating to the major pharmaceutical patent-infringing countries such as Brazil,
Turkey, Argentina and India will result, however, in the continued
discrimination against patents filed prior to the effective date of the
agreement. In addition, changes in the U.S. patent law have resulted in limited
extensions of the terms of patents for some of the Company's products.

Foreign Exchange

Sales and earnings growth in 1996 could be impacted by changes in foreign
exchange rates. The Company manages its foreign exchange risk through a variety
of techniques. For further details, see the footnote "Financial Instruments and
Concentrations of Credit Risk" beginning on page 47.

Tax Reform Proposal

The U.S. Congress and the Clinton Administration are presently negotiating the
balancing of the federal budget. Both the vetoed Balanced Budget Reconciliation
Act of 1995 and the Clinton Administration budget proposal contain language that
amends Section 936, so as to completely phase out the income-based tax credit
for those companies with operations in Puerto Rico, where the Company has a
major manufacturing facility. Both proposals provide for the phase down of the
Section 936 credit over a period of five to ten years. In addition, both
proposals contain a provision extending the Research and Development credit. Due
to the significant degree of uncertainty as to the outcome of these
deliberations, the Company is unable to predict the timing and impact upon its
results of operations.

Recently Issued Accounting Standards

In March 1995, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 121, Accounting for the Impairment
of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to be Disposed Of, which became
effective on January 1, 1996. This statement establishes accounting standards
for the impairment of long-lived assets, certain identifiable intangibles and
goodwill related to those assets to be held and used and for long-lived assets
and certain identifiable intangibles to be disposed. Adoption of SFAS No. 121 is
not expected to have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial
position and operating results, nor will it affect the Company's cash flows.

<PAGE>


In October 1995, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation. This statement establishes an alternative method of accounting for
stock- based compensation awarded to employees, such as stock options granted by
the Company to employees. SFAS No. 123 provides for the recognition of
compensation expense based on the fair value of the stock-based award, but
allows companies to continue to measure compensation cost in accordance with
Accounting Principles Board Opinion (APB) No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees. Companies electing to retain this method must make pro forma
disclosures of net income and earnings per share as if the fair value based
method had been applied. The Company plans to continue to use APB No. 25, which
does not require the Company to record compensation expense for the stock
options it awards to employees. In 1996, the Company will disclose the pro forma
effect of the fair value method on 1995 and 1996 net income and earnings per
share.

Litigation and Environmental Matters

Claims have been brought against the Company and its subsidiaries for various
legal matters. In addition, the Company's operations are subject to
international, federal, state and local environmental laws and regulations. For
further details, see the footnote "Litigation" beginning on page 55.

Dividend Growth

The dividend payout ratio amounted to 41.6%, 45.0% and 81.6% in 1995, 1994 and
1993, respectively. Excluding the effect of divestitures, restructuring and
unusual items-net, this ratio would have been 45.4% in 1993.

In January 1996, the Board of Directors declared a first-quarter 1996 dividend
of $.30, an increase of 15% compared with the $.26 dividend declared in each
quarter of 1995 (adjusted for the June 1995 two-for-one stock split). This
marked the 29th consecutive year of quarterly dividend increases.

Responsibility for Financial Statements and
System of Internal Control

The financial statements that appear on pages 40 through 59 were prepared by and
are the responsibility of the Company's management. These financial statements
are in conformity with

<PAGE>

generally accepted accounting principles and, therefore, include amounts based
upon informed judgments and estimates. Management also accepts responsibility
for the preparation of other financial information included in this document.

The Company's management has designed a system of internal control to safeguard
its assets, ensure that transactions are properly authorized and provide
reasonable assurance, at reasonable cost, as to the integrity, objectivity and
reliability of financial information. Even an effective internal control system,
regardless of how well designed, has inherent limitations and, therefore, can
provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement
preparation. The system is built on a business ethics policy that requires all
employees to maintain the highest ethical standards in conducting Company
affairs. The system of internal control includes careful selection, training and
development of financial managers, an organizational structure that segregates
responsibilities and a communications program which ensures that Company
policies and procedures are well understood throughout the organization. The
Company also has an extensive program of internal audits, with prompt follow-up,
including reviews of separate Company operations and functions around the world.

The Company's independent certified public accountants, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP,
have audited the annual financial statements in accordance with generally
accepted auditing standards. The independent auditors' report expresses an
informed judgment as to the fair presentation of the Company's reported
operating results, financial position and cash flows. This judgment is based on
the results of auditing procedures performed and such other tests that they
deemed necessary, including consideration of the Company's internal control
structure.

Recommendations made by KPMG Peat Marwick LLP and the Company's internal
auditors are considered and appropriate action taken with respect to these
recommendations. The Company believes that its system of internal control is
effective and adequate to accomplish the objectives discussed above.


W. C. Steere, Jr.
Principal Executive Officer



D. L. Shedlarz
Principal Financial Officer



H. V. Ryan
Principal Accounting Officer


February 22, 1996



#



Audit Committee's Report
Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies

The Board of Directors reviews the audit function, internal controls and the
financial statements largely through its Audit Committee, which consists solely
of directors who are not Company employees. In 1995, the Audit Committee met
five times with management, the independent auditors and internal auditors
concerning their respective responsibilities. Among its various duties, the
Audit Committee recommends the appointment of the Company's independent
auditors. Both KPMG Peat Marwick LLP and the internal auditors have full access
to the Audit Committee and meet with it,

<PAGE>

without management present, to discuss the scope and results of their
examinations including internal control, audit and financial reporting matters.

S. O. Ikenberry, Ph.D.
Chair, Audit Committee

February 22, 1996

Independent Auditors' Report

KPMG Peat Marwick LLP
Certified Public Accountants

To the Shareholders and Board of Directors of Pfizer Inc:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of Pfizer Inc and
subsidiary companies as of December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993 and the related
consolidated statements of income, shareholders' equity and cash flows for each
of the years then ended. These consolidated financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are
free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
consolidated financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Pfizer Inc and
subsidiary companies at December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993, and the results of
their operations and their cash flows for each of the years then ended, in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.

/s/ KPMG Peat MarwicK LLP

345 Park Avenue
New York, NY 10154


February 22, 1996


#


Segment Information
Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                            
                                                               Consumer     Corporate/
                                    Health        Animal        Health      Financial
     (millions of dollars)           Care         Health         Care       Subsidiaries(a)    Consolidated
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                               <C>           <C>            <C>          <C>                <C>


     1995
     Net sales                    $8,408.6      $1,219.5        $ 393.3      $     -           $10,021.4

     Segment profit               $2,547.8      $   96.9        $  36.2      $     -           $ 2,680.9
     Net interest and
     corporate
     expenses                                                                   (381.7)           (381.7)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Income from continuing 
      operations before 
      provision for taxes
      on income and minority 
      interests                                                                                $ 2,299.2
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Identifiable
       assets                     $5,557.0      $2,069.0        $ 307.2      $ 4,796.1         $12,729.3
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<PAGE>

<CAPTION>

<S>                               <C>           <C>            <C>          <C>              <C>

     Capital additions            $  515.5      $   73.7        $  28.5      $    78.6         $   696.3
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Depreciation                 $  252.3      $   28.7        $   8.1      $    31.8         $   320.9
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     1994
     Net sales                    $6,963.0      $  605.3        $ 409.0      $     -           $ 7,977.3
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Segment profit               $1,976.6      $   47.4        $  34.1      $     -           $ 2,058.1
     Net interest and
       corporate
       expenses                                                                 (227.6)           (227.6)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Income from continuing
       operations before
       provision for taxes
       on income and
       minority
       interests                                                                               $ 1,830.5
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Identifiable
        assets                    $5,388.1      $  501.8        $ 205.3      $ 5,003.3         $11,098.5
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Capital additions            $  482.5      $   45.9        $  15.6      $   127.5         $   671.5
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Depreciation                 $  216.3      $   16.9        $   7.1      $    35.1         $   275.4 
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     1993 
     Net sales                    $6,210.3      $  578.0        $ 373.5      $     -           $ 7,161.8
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Segment profit/
       (loss)(b)                  $1,129.9      $    (5.8)      $(102.3)     $     -           $ 1,021.8
     Net interest
       and corporate
       expenses(b)                                                              (186.5)           (186.5)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Income from
       continuing
       operations
       before provision
       for taxes
       on income and
       minority
       interests                                                                               $   835.3
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Identifiable
       assets                     $4,650.3      $  444.6        $ 152.4      $ 4,083.6         $ 9,330.9
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Capital additions            $  480.9      $   39.2        $  15.4      $    98.7         $   634.2
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Depreciation                 $  182.6      $   17.0        $   6.5      $    35.0         $   241.1
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

</TABLE>

(a) Includes identifiable assets, capital additions and depreciation of the
discontinued operation. Additionally, net interest and corporate expenses
include amounts that relate to the operations of the financial subsidiaries.
Segment information for the financial subsidiaries can be found in the
"Financial Subsidiaries" footnote on page 47.

(b) Includes pre-tax charges of approximately $745 million and $56 million to
cover a worldwide restructuring program as well as unusual items and a gain of
approximately $60 million realized on the sale of the Company's remaining
interest in Minerals Technologies Inc. (MTI). Amounts directly attributable to
individual segments have been allocated to them. Amounts not directly traceable
to individual segments are included in net interest and corporate expenses.

Various segments use common production facilities. Allocation among such
segments of property, plant and equipment, as well as capital additions and
depreciation, is based principally on physical production. Corporate assets
consist primarily of cash, short-term investments and long-term marketable
securities.

Segment Information for 1994 and 1993 has been restated to report the food
science business as a discontinued operation. See the footnote "Discontinued
Operations" on page 55.

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements which are an integral part of
these statements.



#

<PAGE>

Geographic Data
Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                                       Canada/ Africa/ Corporate/
                                           United                      Latin   Middle Financial       Adjustments/  
(millions of dollars)                     States(a) Europe    Asia     America  East  Subsidiaries(b) Eliminations  Consolidated
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                       <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>      <C>     <C>          <C>           <C>

  1995
  Net sales                               $5,113.4  $2,443.8  $1,538.2  $ 696.0  $230.0    $    -     $    -         $10,021.4
  Intercompany sales                         175.3     691.7      75.3     29.4     9.5         -       (981.2)            -
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total                                   $5,288.7  $3,135.5  $1,613.5  $ 725.4  $239.5    $    -     $ (981.2)      $10,021.4
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Geographic profit                       $1,628.0  $  777.5  $  261.1  $  48.7  $ 12.5    $    -     $  (46.9)      $ 2,680.9
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Net interest and corporate expenses                                                       (381.7)                     (381.7)
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Income from continuing
    operations before provision
    for taxes on income and minority
    interests                                                                                                        $ 2,299.2
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Identifiable assets                     $3,199.5  $3,646.7  $1,242.9  $ 611.7  $193.4    $4,796.1   $ (961.0)      $12,729.3
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  1994
  Net sales                               $4,236.8  $1,758.6  $1,201.4  $ 598.3  $182.2    $    -     $    -         $ 7,977.3
  Intercompany sales                         140.3     439.3      42.8      8.4     5.0         -       (635.8)            -
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Total                                   $4,377.1  $2,197.9  $1,244.2  $ 606.7  $187.2    $    -     $ (635.8)      $ 7,977.3
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Geographic profit                       $1,409.6  $  531.3  $  108.8  $  41.5  $ 11.6    $    -     $  (44.7)      $ 2,058.1
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Net interest and
    corporate expenses                                                                      (227.6)                     (227.6)
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Income from continuing
    operations before provision 
    for taxes on income and
    minority interests                                                                                               $ 1,830.5
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Identifiable assets                     $2,402.2  $2,385.4  $1,276.4  $ 470.3  $139.1    $5,003.3   $ (578.2)      $11,098.5
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

  1993
  Net sales                               $3,828.3  $1,583.0  $1,071.3  $ 503.1  $176.1    $    -     $    -         $ 7,161.8
  Intercompany sales                         134.5     481.1      11.8      8.1     3.6         -       (639.1)            -
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total                                 $3,962.8  $2,064.1  $1,083.1  $ 511.2  $179.7    $    -     $ (639.1)      $ 7,161.8
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Geographic profit/(loss)(c)             $  697.8  $  378.5  $   67.6  $  (4.9) $(28.6)   $    -     $  (88.6)      $ 1,021.8
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Net interest and
    corporate expenses(c)                                                                   (186.5)                     (186.5)
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Income from continuing
    operations before provision
    for taxes on income
    and minority interests                                                                                           $   835.3
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Identifiable assets                     $2,294.1  $2,005.1  $1,169.0  $ 383.3  $127.7    $4,083.6   $ (731.9)      $ 9,330.9
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

(a) The Company's manufacturing operations in Puerto Rico are included in the
United States for Geographic Data purposes.

(b) Includes identifiable assets of the discontinued operation.

(c) Includes pre-tax charges of approximately $745 million and $56 million to
cover a worldwide restructuring program as well as unusual items and a gain of
approximately $60 million realized on the sale of the Company's remaining
interest in MTI. Amounts directly attributable to individual geographic areas
have been allocated to them. Amounts not directly traceable to individual
geographic areas are included in net interest and corporate expenses.

Products are transferred between geographic areas for additional processing, as
well as for ultimate sale, on a basis intended to recognize economic and
competitive circumstances in the market of end use. The assets physically
located in one area are considered assets of that area even though they provide
goods and/or services to other areas.

Geographic data for 1994 and 1993 have been restated to report the food 
science business as a discontinued operation. See the footnote "Discontinued 
Operations" on page 55.

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements which are an integral part of
these statements.


#

<PAGE>

Consolidated Statement of Income
Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies


                                                   Year ended December 31
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     (millions of dollars except per share data)   1995      1994       1993
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Net sales                                   $10,021.4  $7,977.3   $7,161.8
     Costs and expenses
       Cost of sales                               2,164.1   1,722.2    1,559.0
       Selling, informational and 
         administrative expenses                   3,854.7   3,184.1    3,005.7
       Research and development
         expenses                                  1,442.4   1,126.1      961.3
       Divestitures, restructuring
         and unusual items-net                       -         -          740.6
       Other deductions-net                          261.0     114.4       59.9
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Income from continuing operations
       before provision for taxes on
       income and minority interests               2,299.2   1,830.5      835.3
     Provision for taxes on income                   738.0     549.2      187.7
     Minority interests                                7.0       4.6        2.6
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Income from continuing operations             1,554.2   1,276.7      645.0
     Discontinued operations-net of taxes 
       on income                                      18.7      21.7       12.5
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Net income                                  $ 1,572.9  $1,298.4   $  657.5
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Earnings per common share
       Income from continuing operations         $    2.47  $   2.05   $   1.01
       Discontinued operations-net of
         taxes on income                               .03       .04        .02
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
       Net income                                $    2.50  $   2.09   $   1.03
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements which are an integral part of
these statements.

<PAGE>

#

Consolidated Statement of Shareholders' Equity
Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                           Common     Stock    Additional              Translation   Employee
                           ------------------   Paid-In     Retained    Adjustment    Benefit    Treasury   Stock
(millions)                 Shares   Par Value   Capital     Earnings    and Other      Trust      Shares     Cost        Total
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                        <C>      <C>        <C>          <C>         <C>          <C>         <C>        <C>        <C>

     Balance January
       1, 1993, as
       reported            337.0    $33.7       $  374.9   $5,119.3      $ 45.3     $     -       (11.8)  $  (854.6)    $ 4,718.6
     Restatement for
       the 1995 stock
       split               336.9       -             -           -          -             -       (11.9)        -             -
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Balance January
       1, 1993,
       as restated         673.9     33.7          374.9    5,119.3        45.3           -       (23.7)     (854.6)      4,718.6
     Net income                                               657.5                                                         657.5
     Cash dividends
       declared                                              (536.1)                                                       (536.1)
     Currency
       translation
       adjustment                                                         (13.6)                                            (13.6)
     Stock option
       transactions          2.8       .2           41.9                                            -            .6          42.7
     Purchases of
       common stock                                                                               (31.6)   (1,019.6)     (1,019.6)
     Employee
       benefit trust
       transactions-
       net                                          63.2                               (690.0)     20.0       631.1           4.3
     Dividend
       reinvestment
       plan                   .4      -             11.7                                                                     11.7
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


<CAPTION>

<S>                        <C>      <C>        <C>          <C>         <C>          <C>         <C>        <C>        <C>

     Balance December 31, 
      1993                 677.1     33.9          491.7    5,240.7        31.7       (690.0)     (35.3)   (1,242.5)      3,865.5
     Net income                                             1,298.4                                                       1,298.4
     Cash dividends
       declared                                              (594.6)                                                       (594.6)
     Currency translation
       adjustment                                                         162.3                                             162.3
     Stock option
       transactions          3.1       .1           63.1                                            -           1.0          64.2
     Purchases of
       common stock                                                                               (16.9)     (511.2)       (511.2)
     Employee benefit
      trust transactions-
      net                                           83.4                               (59.3)                                24.1
     Dividend
       reinvestment
       plan                   .5      -             11.8                                                                     11.8
     Unrealized net
       gain on avail-
       able-for-sale
       securities-net                                                       2.0                                               2.0
     Other                     -      -              1.4                                                                      1.4
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Balance December
       31, 1994            680.7     34.0          651.4    5,944.5       196.0       (749.3)     (52.2)   (1,752.7)      4,323.9
     Net income                                             1,572.9                                                       1,572.9
     Cash dividends
       declared                                              (658.5)                                                       (658.5)
     Currency
       translation
       adjustment                                                          12.6                                              12.6
     Stock option
       transactions          4.3       .3          125.8                                            2.3        78.9         205.0
     Purchases of
       common stock                                                                                (2.5)     (108.5)       (108.5)
     Employee benefit
       trust transactions-
       net                                         440.2                              (420.5)                                19.7
     Dividend
       reinvestment plan      .3      -             15.8                                                                     15.8
     Unrealized net gain 
       on available-for-
       sale securities-net                                                 22.7                                              22.7
     Minimum pension
       liability-net                                                      (67.9)                                            (67.9)
     Treasury stock 
       utilized for the 
       NAMIC acquisition                                                                               4.4       166.9      166.9
     Other                    -        -             2.0                                                           2.0
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Balance December
       31, 1995            685.3   $ 34.3       $1,235.2   $6,858.9      $163.4    $(1,169.8)     (48.0)  $(1,615.4)    $ 5,506.6
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements which are an integral part of
these statements.


<PAGE>


Consolidated Balance Sheet
Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies


                                                     December 31
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
     (millions of dollars)                   1995         1994         1993
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Assets
     Current Assets
     Cash and cash equivalents              $403.3    $ 1,458.5    $   729.4
     Short-term investments                1,108.7        560.1        447.1
     Accounts receivable, less
       allowances for doubtful accounts:
       1995-$61.0; 1994-$44.1; 1993-$40.6  2,024.0      1,665.0      1,468.7
     Short-term loans                        289.1        361.3        456.9
     Inventories
       Finished goods                        564.4        528.0        413.3
       Work in process                       578.8        534.9        502.1
       Raw materials and supplies            240.9        202.0        178.1
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
         Total inventories                 1,384.1      1,264.9      1,093.5
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Prepaid expenses, taxes
       and other assets                      943.2        478.6        537.6
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
         Total current assets              6,152.4      5,788.4      4,733.2
     Long-term loans and investments         544.9        828.6        693.4
     Property, plant and equipment,
       less accumulated depreciation       3,472.6      3,073.2      2,632.5
     Goodwill, less accumulated
       amortization 1995-
       $78.8; 1994-$48.2; 1993-$37.4       1,243.0        325.7        231.1
     Other assets, deferred taxes
       and deferred charges                1,316.4      1,082.6      1,040.7
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

         Total assets                    $12,729.3    $11,098.5    $ 9,330.9
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Liabilities and Shareholders'
       Equity
     Current Liabilities
     Short-term borrowings, including
       current portion of long-
       term debt                          $2,035.5    $ 2,220.0    $ 1,178.8
     Accounts payable                        715.3        524.9        479.1
     Income taxes payable                    822.3        731.1        606.2
     Accrued compensation and related
      items                                  421.3        419.0        408.6
     Other current liabilities             1,192.8        930.9        770.9
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
         Total current liabilities         5,187.2      4,825.9      3,443.6
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Long-term debt                          833.0        604.2        570.5
     Postretirement benefit
       obligation other than pension plans   426.3        432.6        443.3
     Deferred taxes on income                166.1        211.7        189.4
     Other non-current liabilities           563.5        661.4        779.3
     Minority interests                       46.6         38.8         39.3
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
         Total liabilities                 7,222.7      6,774.6      5,465.4
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Shareholders' Equity
     Preferred stock, without
     par value; 12,000,000 shares
     authorized, none issued                     -            -            -
     Common stock, $.05 par value;
       1,500,000,000 shares authorized;
       issued: 1995-685,315,496;
       1994-680,661,632;
       1993-677,129,504                       34.3         34.0         33.9
     Additional paid-in capital            1,235.2        651.4        491.7
     Retained earnings                     6,858.9      5,944.5      5,240.7
     Currency translation adjustment
       and other                             163.4        196.0         31.7
     Employee benefit trust               (1,169.8)      (749.3)      (690.0)
     Common stock in treasury,
       at cost: 1995-48,048,739;
       1994-52,209,682;
       1993-35,284,538                    (1,615.4)    (1,752.7)    (1,242.5)
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
         Total shareholders' equity        5,506.6      4,323.9      3,865.5
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
         Total liabilities and
           shareholders' equity          $12,729.3    $11,098.5    $ 9,330.9
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements which are an integral part of
these statements.


<PAGE>


Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies


                                                 Year ended December 31
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
     (millions of dollars)                      1995      1994        1993
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Operating Activities
       Net income                            $1,572.9  $ 1,298.4  $   657.5
       Adjustments to reconcile
         net income to net cash
         provided by operating
         activities:
           Loss on sale-discontinued
             operations                           3.0          -          -
           Depreciation and amortization of
             intangibles                        374.0      292.0      258.2
           Divestitures, restructuring and
             unusual items                          -          -      740.6
           Deferred taxes                       (12.9)      32.6     (336.1)
           Other                                 74.2       (5.9)      22.4
           Changes in assets and
             liabilities, net of effect of
             businesses acquired and divested:
               Accounts receivable             (290.2)    (160.7)    (160.8)
               Inventories                      (24.6)    (110.8)    (142.3)
               Prepaid and other assets        (170.7)     (11.5)     (44.8)
               Accounts payable and accrued
                 liabilities                    320.4      167.9       30.5
               Income taxes payable              87.5      121.3      227.9
               Other deferred items            (112.2)    (134.8)       9.9
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Net cash provided by operating
       activities                             1,821.4    1,488.5    1,263.0
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Investing Activities
       Acquisitions, net of cash acquired    (1,520.9)         -          -
       Purchases of property, plant and
        equipment                              (696.3)    (671.5)    (634.2)
       Proceeds from sales of businesses            -          -      241.2
       Purchases of short-term investments   (2,610.4)  (1,355.9)    (739.6)
       Proceeds from redemptions of
         short-term investments               2,184.6    1,244.8      846.8
       Purchases of long-term investments      (151.0)    (162.1)    (175.9)
       Purchases and redemptions of
         short-term investments by
         financial subsidiaries                 (30.1)      43.4      (21.3)
       Decrease in loans and long-term
         investments by financial
         subsidiaries                           330.3       20.7      167.3
       Other investing activities               151.0       40.3      118.8
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Net cash used in investing activities   (2,342.8)    (840.3)    (196.9)
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Financing Activities
       Proceeds from issuances of
         long-term debt                         502.3       39.8        6.4
       (Decrease)/increase in short-term
         debt                                  (444.3)   1,030.8      (70.1)
       Stock option transactions                205.0       64.2       42.7
       Purchases of common stock               (108.5)    (511.2)  (1,019.6)
       Cash dividends paid                     (658.5)    (594.6)    (536.1)
       Other financing activities               (15.1)      32.9        9.7
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Net cash (used in)/provided by
         financing activities                  (519.1)      61.9   (1,567.0)
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Effect of exchange rate changes on
         cash and cash equivalents              (14.7)      19.0      (26.8)
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Net (decrease)/increase in cash and
       cash equivalents                      (1,055.2)     729.1     (527.7)
     Cash and cash equivalents at
       beginning of year                      1,458.5      729.4    1,257.1
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Cash and cash equivalents at end of year  $403.3  $ 1,458.5  $   729.4
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements which are an integral part of
these statements.

<PAGE>

#


Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies


Significant Accounting Policies

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Pfizer Inc and all
significant subsidiaries (the "Company"). Material intercompany transactions are
eliminated. Certain reclassifications have been made to the 1994 and 1993
financial statements to conform to the 1995 presentation, including
classification of the food science business as a discontinued operation in the
statement of income. See the footnote "Discontinued Operations" on page 55.

The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires management to
make estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts and disclosures in
these financial statements. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

The Company is subject to certain risks and uncertainties as a result of 
changes in the health care environment, competition, foreign exchange and tax 
reform as discussed in "Prospective Information" beginning on page 36.

Cash equivalents consist primarily of demand deposits, certificates of deposit
and certain time deposits with maturities of three months or less at the date of
purchase. Certain items which meet the definition of cash equivalents but are
part of a larger pool of investments are included in Short-term investments.

Inventories are valued at cost or market, whichever is lower. Except as noted
below, raw materials and supplies are valued at average or latest actual costs
and finished goods and work in process at average actual costs. Inventories
valued utilizing the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method represent approximately
15% of worldwide inventories at December 31, 1995 and consist of substantially
all of the Company's U.S.-sourced pharmaceuticals as well as a portion of the
animal health inventories. The estimated replacement cost for these inventories
is not materially different from the LIFO value.

Property, plant and equipment are recorded at cost. Significant improvements are
capitalized. In general, the straight-line method of depreciation is used for
financial reporting purposes and accelerated methods are used for U.S. and
certain foreign tax reporting purposes.

Foreign currency translation into U.S. dollars for the assets and liabilities of
most of the Company's international subsidiaries is accomplished using current
exchange rates with resulting translation adjustments recorded in Shareholders'
equity. Exchange gains and losses on hedges of foreign net investments and on
intercompany balances of a long-term investment nature are also recorded in
Shareholders' equity. International subsidiaries and branches operating in
highly inflationary economies translate non-monetary assets at historical rates,
while net monetary assets are translated at current rates, with the resulting
translation adjustments included in net income.

The provision for taxes on income does not include a provision for U.S. 
income taxes on international subsidiaries' unremitted earnings which, for 
the most part, are expected to be reinvested overseas. The Company intends to 
remit a portion of future earnings. To the extent that the parent company 
receives such foreign earnings as dividends, foreign taxes paid on those

<PAGE>

earnings will generate tax credits which substantially offset the related U.S.
income taxes. The Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993 imposed a limitation
on the tax credit allowed to the Company for U.S. taxes on income earned in
Puerto Rico for tax years beginning after December 31, 1993. As a result, taxes
have been provided to the extent required by this change in law.

Goodwill and other intangibles are recorded at cost. Amounts arising from 
acquisitions accounted for as purchases subsequent to 1970 are amortized over 
various periods not exceeding 40 years. Other intangibles are included in 
Other assets, deferred taxes and deferred charges in the Consolidated Balance 
Sheet. When events or changes in circumstances occur that indicate that the 
carrying amount of goodwill and other intangibles may not be recoverable, the 
Company assesses the recoverability from future operations using undiscounted 
cash flows and measures the impairment, if any, using discounted cash flows.

Advertising production costs are expensed as incurred while costs related to
space in publications or radio or television time are deferred and expensed the
first time the advertising occurs. Advertising expense was $687.5, $609.2 and
$621.9 million for 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.

Common stock and per share data for 1994 and 1993 have been restated to reflect
the 1995 two-for-one stock split. See the footnote "Common Stock" on page 53.

Consolidated International Subsidiaries

Subsidiaries operating outside the U.S. generally are included in the
consolidated financial statements on a fiscal year basis ending November 30.
Substantially all the international subsidiaries' unremitted earnings are free
from legal or contractual restrictions. Additional information is shown on page
41.

Net exchange losses included in Other deductions-net were $13.8, $1.5 and 
$40.0 million in 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.

Changes in the currency translation adjustment included in Shareholders' equity
were as follows:
     (millions of dollars)                       1995       1994       1993
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Currency translation
       adjustment January 1                    $194.0     $ 31.7     $ 45.3
     Translation adjustments and hedges          12.3      161.8      (92.6)
     Income taxes allocated to
       translation adjustments and hedges          .3         .5         .9
     Transfer to income statement on sale
       or liquidation of businesses                 -          -       78.1
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Currency translation adjustment
       December 31                             $206.6     $194.0     $ 31.7
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Investments in Debt and Equity Securities

In 1994, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS)
No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities.

As of December 31, 1995 and 1994, the status of the securities accounted for
under SFAS No. 115 was as follows:
                                                 Amortized Cost
     ------------------------------------------------------------
     (millions of dollars)                       1995       1994
     ------------------------------------------------------------
     Held-to-maturity:
       Corporate debt                        $  682.2     $381.5
       Certificates of deposit                  350.3      234.7
       Municipals                               221.6       88.6
       U.S. government
         agencies                                56.4       28.2
       Foreign governments                       51.1       51.8
       Commercial paper                          48.0       91.0
       Mortgage-backed                           30.4       33.4
     ------------------------------------------------------------
         Total                               $1,440.0     $909.2
     ------------------------------------------------------------

As of December 31, 1995 and 1994, the aggregate fair value of the
held-to-maturity securities was $1,440.2 and $900.7 million, respectively. The
gross unrealized gains and losses by type of security were not material.


                                   Amortized    Fair       Gross Unrealized
                                                           ----------------
     (millions of dollars)           Cost       Value      Gains     Losses
     ----------------------------------------------------------------------
     Available-for-sale: Equity
       securities
       1995                         $67.7      $109.5     $49.6    $ (7.8)
       1994                          56.7        60.1      18.8     (15.4)
     ----------------------------------------------------------------------
<PAGE>

The above securities are reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as follows:

     (millions of dollars)                             1995        1994
     -------------------------------------------------------------------
     Cash and cash equivalents                   $  153.2         $ 90.0
     Short-term investments                       1,108.7          560.1
     Long-term loans and investments                287.6          319.2
     -------------------------------------------------------------------

The contractual maturities of the held-to-maturity securities as of December 31,
1995 were as follows:

                                           Years
                        ---------------------------------------
                                     Over 1    Over 5
(millions of dollars)   Within 1      to 5     to 10    Over 10     Total
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Corporate debt    $  572.0      $ 82.3     $20.1     $7.8    $  682.2
     Certificates of
       deposit            332.8        17.5         -        -       350.3
     Municipals           201.6        20.0         -        -       221.6
     U.S. government
       agencies            56.4           -         -        -        56.4
     Foreign
       governments         51.1           -         -        -        51.1
     Commercial
       paper               48.0           -         -        -        48.0
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
       Subtotal        $1,261.9      $119.8     $20.1     $7.8     1,409.6
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Mortgage-backed                                                  30.4
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
       Total                                                      $1,440.0
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------

Financial Subsidiaries

Combined financial data/segment information as of November 30, 1995, 1994 and
1993 applicable to the Company's financial subsidiaries, consisting of Pfizer
International Bank Europe (PIBE) and a small captive insurance company, was as
follows:

Condensed Balance Sheet


     (millions of dollars)                       1995     1994      1993
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Cash and interest-bearing deposits        $ 13.5 $  285.2  $  222.2
     Eurosecurities and securities
       purchased under a resale
       agreement                                 34.0      3.8      46.8
     Loans, net                                 433.2    766.4     794.1
     Other assets                                 7.6     13.2      10.3
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
       Total assets                            $488.3 $1,068.6  $1,073.4
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Certificates of deposit and
       other liabilities                       $ 85.4 $  184.5  $  166.5
     Deferred income                                -     13.0      26.2
     Shareholders' equity                       402.9    871.1     880.7
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
       Total liabilities and
         shareholders' equity                  $488.3 $1,068.6  $1,073.4
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------

     Condensed Statement of
       Income
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
     (millions of dollars)                       1995     1994      1993
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Interest income                           $ 44.2 $   49.2  $   48.1
     Interest expense                            (3.5)    (4.6)     (4.2)
     Other (expense)/income-net                  (5.9)   (12.0)      1.2
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Net income                                $ 34.8 $   32.6  $   45.1
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------

Investments of the banking subsidiary generally are held until maturity and
therefore, are recorded at amortized cost.

The 1995 data reflect a reduced loan portfolio effected to bring PIBE's balance
sheet into line with its business needs. PIBE continues to have S&P's highest
short-term rating of A1+.

In 1995, the Company adopted SFAS No. 114, Accounting by Creditors for
Impairment of a Loan, which did not have a material effect on its financial
position or results of operations.

Financial Instruments and Concentrations of Credit Risk

Changes in the value of the U.S. dollar and other currencies affect the
Company's financial position and results of operations since the Company has
manufacturing operations in many countries and sells its products on a worldwide
basis. Changes in interest rates affect the Company's financial position and
results of operations as a result of its investments and borrowings. The Company
manages its foreign exchange and interest-rate risks through a variety of
techniques, including the use of foreign-currency and interest-rate contracts.
The Company does not leverage or trade derivative financial instruments.

Generally, gains and losses arising from the contracts used for foreign exchange
and interest-rate risk management are recognized in income simultaneously with
the net income effect of the related transactions generating such risks.


<PAGE>

The aggregate notional amounts of the Company's foreign-currency and
interest-rate contracts were approximately as follows:


     (millions of dollars)                       1995     1994      1993
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Foreign-currency contracts:
       Forward contracts                     $1,888.0   $750.0    $420.0
       Purchased options                        497.0    150.0     180.0
       Written options                           74.0        -         -
       Swaps                                    559.0     90.0         -
     Interest-rate contracts:
         Swaps                                  874.0    275.0     200.0
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Company enters into forward-exchange contracts to match local market
short-term assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the
functional currency. The Company's contracts generally have maturities of six
months or less. Changes in the fair value of forward-exchange contracts are
included in Other deductions-net, together with foreign exchange gains and
losses.

The Company purchases currency options to hedge anticipated inventory purchases
and sales. The currency options are reported at cost which is amortized to
operations on a straight-line basis through the expected inventory delivery
date. Unrealized gains at that date are deferred as a reduction of inventory
cost and recognized in net income as sales occur. The Company's currency options
have maturities of up to two years.

The U.S. dollar equivalent notional amounts of the significant foreign currency 
forward contracts and purchased options were as follows:

     (millions of dollars)                                1995      1994
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Commitments to sell foreign currencies:
       U.K. pounds                                      $644.9    $ 61.3
       French francs                                     237.6      34.4
       Belgian francs                                    113.7       8.2
       Irish punt                                        104.3      48.6
       German marks                                       67.1      29.3
       Japanese yen                                       39.6     107.2
       Norwegian kroner                                   36.4      14.0
     Commitments to purchase foreign currencies:
       U.K. pounds                                       283.1     131.8
       German marks                                       79.1      55.2
       Japanese yen                                       39.1         -
       Irish punt                                         34.8      91.8
     Purchased options:
       Japanese yen                                      231.0     150.0
       German marks                                      104.0         -
       French francs                                      87.0         -
       Belgian francs                                     56.0         -
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------

The commitments to sell and purchase foreign currencies and purchased options
are primarily in exchange for U.S. dollars.

During 1995, the Company wrote Japanese yen call options with terms identical to
previously purchased put options. Both options are reported at market value and
any market value changes are reported in Other deductions-net. Due to the fact
that these positions effectively offset, there is no net impact on earnings.

Interest-rate swap contracts are used to manage interest-rate risk on assets and
liabilities and to lower the Company's borrowing cost. The differential to be
paid or received under the contracts is accrued over the lives of the contracts
as interest rates change. Such amounts are included in Other deductions-net.

At December 31, 1995, the interest-rate swap contracts include a two-year
Japanese yen denominated contract with a notional principal amount of $350
million. This contract effectively converted the Company's Japanese
yen-denominated short-term floating-rate debt (based on the yen London Interbank
Offered Rate [LIBOR]-0.5% at December 31, 1995) into 1.3% fixed-rate debt.

At December 31, 1994, PIBE had contracts of $200 million to convert certain
floating-rate assets to fixed-rate assets. The Company sold the right to receive
the fixed-rate payments under the contracts totaling $200 million in order to
reduce counterparty credit risk. Income on this transaction was deferred and
amortized over the life of the swap contracts, all of which expired in 1995.
Additionally, a contract of $50 million that matured early in 1995 converted
certain fixed-rate assets of PIBE into floating-rate assets based on U.S. dollar
LIBOR.

Currency swap contracts are used to manage foreign exchange risk on foreign
currency denominated assets and liabilities with the differential to be paid or
received under the agreements accrued over the lives of the contracts as foreign
exchange gains and losses. Such amounts are included in Other deductions-net.
Currency swap contracts are reported net in the balance sheet.

<PAGE>

In 1995, in connection with a sale-and-repurchase financing, the Company entered
into an interest-rate swap and a currency swap to effectively convert a U.K.
sterling liability from fixed rate to U.S. dollar variable rate for a period of
five years. The notional amount of the U.K. sterling denominated interest-rate
swap is $499 million and involves the exchange of a 7.3% fixed rate for a
variable rate (based on U.K. sterling LIBOR-6.5% at December 31, 1995). The 
amount of the currency swap is $499 million and involves the exchange of the
U.K. sterling variable rate for U.S. dollar variable rate (based on U.S. dollar
LIBOR-5.9% at December 31, 1995), with the effective payment of the principal
amount in U.S. dollars at maturity.

At December 31, 1995 and 1994, the Company had other currency swap contracts 
with notional amounts of approximately $60 and $90 million outstanding, 
respectively, maturing through 1997. Such contracts effectively convert 
certain PIBE fixed-rate (6.8% in 1995, 6.4% in 1994) foreign currency assets 
into floating-rate (based on U.S. dollar LIBOR-6.0% in 1995, 5.8% in 1994) 
U.S. dollar-denominated assets.

The Company periodically reviews the credit quality of financial institutions
which are counterparties to its foreign-currency and interest-rate contracts and
does not expect any loss from the failure of such institutions to perform under
the contracts. The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers'
financial condition and generally requires no collateral from its customers.

At December 31, 1995, the Company had no significant concentrations of credit
risk related to financial instruments.

Fair Value of Financial Instruments

The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair values of
financial instruments:

For short-term financial instruments, the carrying amount approximates the fair
value because of the short maturities of those instruments. For loans, the
carrying amount approximates the fair value because of the short reset period.

Quoted market prices or dealer quotes for the same or similar instruments were
used for certain long-term interest-bearing deposits and investments, long-term
debt, forward-exchange contracts and currency options.

Interest-rate and currency-swap agreements have been valued by using the
estimated amount that the Company would receive or pay to terminate the swap
agreements at the reporting date based on broker quotes, taking into account
current interest rates and the current creditworthiness of the swap
counterparties.

The difference between the fair values and carrying values of the Company's 
financial instruments is not material.

Property, Plant and Equipment

The major categories of property, plant and equipment and accumulated
depreciation are as follows:

     (millions of dollars)              1995         1994      1993
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------
     Land                               $95.1     $   85.2  $   81.8
     Buildings                        1,405.6      1,218.6   1,093.8
     Machinery and equipment          2,345.3      2,108.4   1,897.8
     Furniture, fixtures and other    1,100.0        940.2     812.8
     Construction in progress           517.4        640.5     414.5
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------
                                      5,463.4      4,992.9   4,300.7
     Less: accumulated depreciation   1,990.8      1,919.7   1,668.2
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------
                                     $3,472.6     $3,073.2  $2,632.5
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------

Long-Term Debt

Long-term debt, exclusive of current maturities of $277.1, $6.5 and $3.6 million
in 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively, is summarized as follows:

     (millions of dollars)                   1995      1994      1993
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------
     Repurchase Agreement Obligation         $499.0    $   -     $   -
     7 1/8% Notes due 1996                        -    250.0     250.0
     6 1/2% Notes due 1997                    250.0    250.0     250.0
     10 1/4% Industrial Development
          Bonds due 2001                       22.0     22.0      22.0
     7% Solid Waste Disposal Facilities
          Revenue Bonds due 2025               18.0     18.0         -
     Other borrowings and mortgages            44.0     64.2      48.5
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------
                                             $833.0   $604.2    $570.5
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------

In 1995, the Company sold securities for $499 million with an obligation to
repay the same principal amount pursuant to a repurchase agreement maturing in
December 2000. In addition, the $250 million of 7 1/8% Notes due 1996 were
reclassified from Long-term debt to Short-term borrowings in 1995.

Long-term debt maturities for the years 1997 through 2000, are $260.7, $3.3,
$4.0 and $499.8 million, respectively.

<PAGE>

The effective weighted average interest rate on short-term borrowings and
long-term debt outstanding as of December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993 was 5.5%, 6.0%
and 5.1%, respectively.

At December 31, 1995, the Company had approximately $1.2 billion in major unused
lines of credit. 

During 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively, the Company incurred interest costs of
$204.9, $141.6 and $120.5 million, including $12.4, $14.7 and $14.0 million 
which was capitalized. Interest paid was approximately $175.0, $106.9 and 
$122.2 million in 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.

Other Deductions-Net

Other deductions-net are summarized in the following table:

     (millions of dollars)           1995       1994       1993
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
     Interest income               $(157.7)   $(123.0)   $(163.5)
     Interest expense                192.5      126.9      106.5
     Amortization of goodwill
          and other intangibles       45.6       13.8       13.3
     Other, net                      180.6       96.7      103.6
- ------------------------------------------------------------------
     Other deductions-net          $ 261.0    $ 114.4    $  59.9
- ------------------------------------------------------------------

In 1995, Other, net included approximately $57 million of net pre-tax income
related to the completion of all appeals in a patent infringement case with
SciMed Life Systems, Inc., a provision for various litigation issues and pre-tax
charges of approximately $53 million that resulted from decisions to withdraw
from a product line and to modify certain distribution relationships.

Divestitures, Restructuring and Unusual Items

Income before taxes for 1993 included charges of approximately $745 million and
$56 million, which excludes approximately $11 million directly related to
discontinued operations, to cover a worldwide restructuring program, as well as
unusual items. Unusual items included the write-down of goodwill of
approximately $122 million which related to a business evaluation where it was
determined that revenue and profitability levels were not meeting previously
estimated levels and unamortized goodwill would not be recovered through future
cash flows of the business. Restructuring actions for the program included the
consolidation of manufacturing facilities, the demolition of buildings resulting
from the consolidation, reconfiguration and rehabilitation of remaining
facilities and the consolidation of distribution and administrative
infrastructures. It is expected that the 1993 program will be substantially
completed in 1996.

The following table reflects the status of the 1993 restructuring charges by 
component:

                               
                              
                               1993                                 Balance
                            Restructuring         Utilization       December 31,
                                            ----------------------
     (millions of dollars)    charges       1993      1994    1995    1995
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     Employee severance
          payments            $220.3        $ 22.9    $ 22.9  $56.5   $118.0
     Operating assets to
          be sold/disposed of  211.7          61.5      44.3   28.1     77.8
     Other charges             246.8          62.0      82.1   72.0     30.7
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                              $678.8        $146.4    $149.3 $156.6   $226.5
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

There have been no reclassifications between the components of the reserve
presented in the preceding table. Other charges consist primarily of provisions
for closed facilities' costs, currency translation adjustments related to the
liquidation or disposal of businesses, administrative infrastructures and lease
and third-party contract termination costs which were previously presented as
separate captions.Write-downs of operating assets, which primarily involve
manufacturing rationalizations, are considered utilized and the reserve charged
when the asset is sold or otherwise disposed of by the Company.

In 1993, the Company sold its remaining interest of approximately 40% in
Minerals Technologies Inc. for gross proceeds of approximately $241 million. The
sale resulted in a pre-tax gain of approximately $60 million.

Taxes on Income

Income from continuing operations before taxes for U.S. and international
operations consisted of the following:

     (millions of dollars)              1995         1994           1993
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
     United States                     $1,041.3     $1,056.8       $439.5
     International                      1,257.9        773.7        395.8
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Total income from continuing
          operations before taxes      $2,299.2     $1,830.5       $835.3
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------

The classification of items presented in the above table differs from that in
the geographic data table on page 41. The geographic data table displays
information by management organization, exclusive of financial subsidiaries, net
interest and corporate expenses. Income from continuing

<PAGE>

operations before taxes in the above table is classified based on the location
of the operations of the Company.

The provision for taxes on income consisted of the following:

     (millions of dollars)                 1995        1994      1993
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
     United States
          Taxes currently payable
               Federal                     $341.6      $238.3    $264.1
               State and local               41.2        14.4      65.6
          Deferred income taxes             (22.4)       35.2    (273.4)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Tax provision                          360.4       287.9      56.3
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
     International
          Taxes currently payable           368.1       263.9     194.1
          Deferred income taxes               9.5        (2.6)    (62.7)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Tax provision                          377.6       261.3     131.4
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Total provision for taxes on income   $738.0      $549.2    $187.7
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------

The provision for taxes on income shown in the previous table is classified
based on the location of the taxing authority, regardless of the location in
which the taxable income is generated. A provision for U.S. income taxes of
approximately $760 million has not been made on approximately $3.3 billion of
international subsidiaries' unremitted earnings as of December 31, 1995 which,
for the most part, are expected to be reinvested overseas.

The earnings of the Company's pharmaceutical subsidiary operating in Puerto 
Rico are subject to taxes pursuant to an incentive grant effective through 
December 31, 2002. Under this grant, the Company is partially exempt from 
income, property and municipal taxes. The Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act 
of 1993 imposed a limitation on the tax credit allowed to the Company for 
U.S. taxes on income earned in Puerto Rico for tax years beginning after 
December 31, 1993. As a result, taxes have been provided to the extent 
required by this change in law.

The major elements contributing to the difference between the U.S. statutory tax
rate and the consolidated effective tax rate were as follows:

     (percentages)                                1995    1994   1993*
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------
     U.S. statutory tax rate                      35.0    35.0   35.0
     Effect of partially tax-exempt
          operations in Puerto Rico               (5.8)   (9.9) (19.4)
     Effect of reduced rates in Ireland           (4.5)   (2.6)  (4.0)
     Divestitures, restructuring and
          unusual items-net                          -       -    4.4
     State and local taxes                          .9     1.2    4.3
     R&D tax credit                                (.7)   (1.1)  (3.3)
     All other-net                                 7.2     7.4    5.5
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------
     Consolidated effective tax rate              32.1    30.0   22.5
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------

*Excluding the effect of divestitures, restructuring and unusual items-net, the
effects of partially tax-exempt operations in Puerto Rico and of reduced rates
in Ireland would have been approximately (10.0%) and (2.1%), respectively.

Deferred tax assets and liabilities, netted by jurisdiction, as of December 31,
1995, 1994 and 1993 are included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as follows:

     (millions of dollars)                     1995      1994      1993
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Current assets-Prepaid expenses,
          taxes and other assets               $ 468.9   $ 373.8   $ 435.3
     Non-current assets-Other assets,
          deferred taxes and deferred charges    254.8     336.2     305.1
     Non-current liabilities-Deferred
          taxes on income                       (166.1)   (211.7)   (189.4)
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Net deferred tax asset                    $ 557.6   $ 498.3   $ 551.0
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

<PAGE>

Temporary differences which give rise to a significant portion of deferred tax
assets and liabilities at December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993 were as follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

     (millions of dollars)        1995                    1994                 1993
                              Deferred Tax             Deferred Tax         Deferred Tax
                          ---------------------   ---------------------  ----------------------
                          Assets    Liabilities   Assets    Liabilities  Assets    Liabilities
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     <S>                  <C>       <C>           <C>       <C>          <C>       <C>
     Prepaid/
            deferred
            items         $236.5       $192.7     $  157.8     $150.1     $  149.4    $ 85.8
     Inventories           245.1         71.0        185.5       67.3        143.1      31.9
     Property,
            plant and
            equipment       43.1        372.5         31.5      322.1         30.9     304.8
     Employee
            benefits       277.2        100.0        207.4      127.7        206.8     129.1
     Restructurings
            and special
            charge         214.5            -        280.3          -        377.9         -
     Foreign tax
            credit carry-
            forwards       110.0            -        165.1          -        100.0         -
     Other carry-
            forwards       153.2            -        117.1          -         59.0         -
     All other             105.6         60.8         76.0       27.4         82.3      23.1
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Subtotal            1,385.2        797.0      1,220.7      694.6      1,149.4     574.7
     Valuation
            allowance      (30.6)           -        (27.8)         -        (23.7)        -
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Total deferred
            taxes       $1,354.6       $797.0     $1,192.9     $694.6     $1,125.7    $574.7
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Net deferred
            tax asset     $557.6                  $  498.3                $  551.0
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

In 1994 and 1993, foreign tax credit carryforwards arose from dividends received
by the Company from foreign subsidiaries. These carryforwards expire through
1999.

A valuation allowance is provided when it is more likely that some portion
of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. The major component of the
valuation allowance relates to the uncertainty of realizing certain foreign
deferred tax assets.

The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) has completed its examination of the
Company's federal income tax returns for the years 1987 through 1989. As part of
this process, the Company received an examination report from the IRS in August
1995, requesting a response within 30 days, which sets forth the adjustments the
IRS is proposing for those years. The Company has filed a response protesting
the proposed adjustments and is awaiting communication from the IRS Appeals
Office. The proposed adjustments relate primarily to the tax accounting
treatment of certain swaps and related transactions undertaken by the Company in
1987 and 1988. These transactions resulted in the receipt of cash in those
years, which the Company duly reported as income for tax purposes. In 1989 (in
Notice 89-21), the IRS announced that it believed cash received in certain swap
transactions should be reported as income for tax purposes over the life of the
swaps, rather than when received. In the case of the Company, this would cause
some of the income to be reported in years subject to the Tax Reform Act of
1986. The IRS proposed adjustment involves approximately $72 million in federal
taxes for the years 1987 through 1989, plus interest. If the proposed adjustment
is carried through to the maturity of the transactions in 1992, an additional
tax deficiency of approximately $86 million, plus interest, would result. The
Company disagrees with the proposed adjustment and continues to believe that its
tax accounting treatment for the transactions in question was proper. The
Company is protesting and appealing the proposed adjustments. While it is
impossible to determine the final disposition, the Company is of the opinion
that the ultimate resolution of this matter should not have a material adverse
effect on the financial position or the results of operations of the Company.

In November 1994, Belgian tax authorities notified Pfizer Research and
Development Company N.V./S.A. (PRDCO), an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of
the Company, of a proposed adjustment to the taxable income of PRDCO for fiscal
year 1992. The proposed adjustment arises from an assertion by the Belgian tax
authorities of jurisdiction with respect to income resulting primarily from
certain transfers of property by non-Belgian subsidiaries of the Company to the
Irish branch of PRDCO. In January 1995, PRDCO received an assessment from the
tax authorities for additional taxes and interest of approximately $432 million
and $97 million, respectively, relating to these matters for the fiscal year
1992. In January 1996, PRDCO received an assessment from the tax authorities,
for fiscal year 1993, for additional taxes and interest of approximately $86
million and $18 million, respectively. The new assessment arises from the same
assertion by the Belgian tax authorities of jurisdiction with respect to all
income of the Irish branch of PRDCO. Based upon the relevant facts regarding the
Irish branch of PRDCO and the provisions of the Belgian tax laws and the written
opinions of outside counsel, the Company believes that the assessments are
wholly without merit.

The Company believes that its accrued tax liabilities are adequate for all open
years.

The Company made income tax payments of approximately $646.1, $414.1 and $323.6
million during 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.

<PAGE>

Pension Plans

The Company and its subsidiaries have pension plans covering substantially all
eligible employees on a contributory or non-contributory basis. The components
of net periodic pension cost for 1995, 1994 and 1993 are as follows:

     (millions of dollars)                 1995      1994       1993
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Service cost-benefits earned
          during the period              $  81.5     $ 79.2     $  60.2
     Interest cost on projected
          benefit obligations              131.1      115.8       107.5

     Actual return on plan assets         (415.0)     (32.8)     (197.4)

     Net amortization and deferral         290.8      (88.4)       71.4
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Net periodic pension cost           $  88.4     $ 73.8     $  41.7
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------

Rate assumptions used in accounting for the defined benefit plans were:

     (percentages)                               1995      1994      1993
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------
     U.S. Plans
          Discount rate                           7.5       8.5       7.5
          Rate of increase in salary levels       5.5       5.5       5.5
          Expected long-term rate
               of return on plan assets          10.0       9.0       9.0
     International Plans (Weighted Average)
          Discount rate                           6.4       7.1       6.7
          Rate of increase in salary levels       4.3       4.6       4.4
          Expected long-term rate of
               return on plan assets              8.1       8.1       8.5
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------

As a result of changes in long-term interest rates, the Company modified its
assumed discount rate for U.S. plans to 7.5% and 8.5% in 1995 and 1994,
respectively. The effect of these changes resulted in a net increase in
projected benefit obligations of $128.9 million for 1995 and a net decrease of
$117.2 million for 1994.

As of December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993, the funded status of the Company's
pension plans was as follows:

     (millions of dollars)                  1995          1994        1993
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Actuarial present value of
          accumulated benefit obligations:
          Vested                            $(1,557.9)   $(1,312.0)  $(1,290.4)
          Non-vested                           (215.8)      (133.3)      (99.8)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
               Total                         (1,773.7)    (1,445.3)   (1,390.2)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Effect of future salary increases         (288.0)      (258.9)     (204.4)
     Projected benefit obligations           (2,061.7)    (1,704.2)   (1,594.6)
     Plan assets at fair value                2,167.9      1,773.6     1,774.9
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Plan assets in excess of projected
          benefit obligations                   106.2         69.4       180.3
     Unrecognized overfunding at date
          of adoption                           (17.8)       (26.9)      (29.6)
     Unrecognized net losses                    129.1        162.6       140.8
     Unrecognized prior service costs            94.7        118.1        61.5
     Minimum liability adjustment              (180.3)       (36.3)      (21.1)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Net pension asset included in
          Consolidated Balance Sheet           $131.9    $   286.9   $   331.9
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

For 1995 and 1994, the preceding table includes accumulated benefit 
obligations of $619.6 and $172.6 million, respectively, and assets at fair 
value of $326.0 and $5.5 million, respectively, primarily related to 
partially funded international plans. The funding policy for the 
international plans conforms to local governmental and tax requirements. In 
1995, a previously fully funded international plan became partially funded 
due primarily to a decrease in the discount rate. 

Benefits under defined benefit plans generally are based on years of service 
and employee career earnings. Participants become fully vested after as few 
as five years of employment.

The Company's funding policy for U.S. plans generally is to contribute annually
into trust funds at a rate intended to remain at a level percentage of
compensation for covered employees. Since the major U.S. plan is overfunded, the
Company's last contribution to this plan was made in 1992.

The plans' assets are invested primarily in stocks, bonds and short-term
investments. At December 31, 1995, the major U.S. plan held approximately 3.2
million shares of the Company's common stock with a fair value of $200.3
million. Dividends of approximately $4 million were paid on such shares in
1995.

Savings and Investment Plans 

The Company maintains voluntary savings and investment plans for most 
employees in the U.S., Puerto Rico, the U.K. and Ireland. Within prescribed 
limits, the Company bases its contributions to the plans on employee 
contributions. For 1995, 1994 and 1993, Company contributions to the U.S. and 
Puerto Rican plans amounted to $33.3, $29.8 and $28.8 million, respectively.

Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions

The Company has defined benefit postretirement plans that provide medical and
life insurance benefits for retirees and eligible dependents. Employees become
eligible for these benefits if they meet minimum age and service requirements
and are eligible for retirement benefits. The Company reserves the right to
modify or terminate these plans. The plans are not funded.

<PAGE>

The components of the 1995, 1994 and 1993 expense were as follows:

     (millions of dollars)                  1995     1994       1993
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------
     Service cost-benefits earned
          during the period                 $5.2     $  5.8     $  5.0
     Interest cost on the accumulated
          obligation                        22.1       21.7       20.2
     Net amortization and deferral         (24.4)     (24.2)     (24.4)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Net periodic postretirement expense    $2.9      $ 3.3     $   .8
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------

The accumulated postretirement benefit obligation recognized in the December 31,
1995, 1994 and 1993 Consolidated Balance Sheets consists of:

     (millions of dollars)                      1995      1994      1993
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Retirees                                   $196.7    $192.1    $178.7
     Fully eligible active plan participants      31.8      35.1      47.1
     Other active plan participants               61.3      52.7      57.0
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Accumulated postretirement benefit
          obligation                             289.8     279.9     282.8
     Unrecognized prior service cost             132.9     157.2     181.6
     Unrecognized net gain/(loss)                  3.6      (4.5)    (21.1)
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Recorded obligation                        $426.3    $432.6    $443.3
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

An average increase of 10% in the cost of covered health care benefits was 
assumed for 1996 and is projected to decrease to 5.2% after 9 years and to 
then remain at that level. A 1% increase in the health care cost trend rate 
would have increased the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation as of 
December 31, 1995 by $15.8 million and the total of service and interest cost 
by $1.3 million. The discount rates used to estimate the accumulated 
postretirement benefit obligation were 7.5%, 8.5% and 7.5% at December 31, 
1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.

In 1995, the Company adopted SFAS No. 106, Employers' Accounting for
Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions, for its postretirement benefit
plans outside the U.S. The effect of adoption was not material to the financial
position or results of operations of the Company.

Postemployment Benefits

The Company adopted SFAS No. 112, Employers' Accounting for Postemployment
Benefits effective January 1, 1994. This statement pertains to benefits provided
to former or inactive employees after employment but before retirement. Because
the Company's past accounting practices were in compliance with this statement,
no cumulative effect adjustment was required.

Common Stock

In June 1995, the Company effected a two-for-one stock split in the form of a
100% stock dividend on its common stock. The par value decreased from $.10 to
$.05 a share. All historical share and per share data have been restated to
reflect the two-for-one stock split. The stock split followed a vote by the
shareholders to increase the Company's authorized common shares to 1.5 billion
shares from 750 million.

The 1993 program to purchase 40 million shares of common stock in the open
market or in privately negotiated transactions was completed during 1994.

Earnings per Common Share

Earnings per common share are computed by dividing net income by the weighted
average number of common shares and common share equivalents outstanding. The
latter consists of shares issuable upon exercise of stock options. The
information necessary for the calculation of earnings per common share for the
years ended December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993, is as follows:

     (millions of dollars and shares
      except per share amounts)              1995          1994          1993
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Income from continuing operations       $1,554.2      $1,276.7      $645.0
     Discontinued operations-net of
          taxes on income                        18.7          21.7        12.5
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Net income                              $1,572.9      $1,298.4      $657.5
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Weighted average number of
          common shares outstanding             614.5         611.6       631.0
     Common share equivalents                    15.0           8.8         9.8
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Total                                      629.5         620.4       640.8
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Earnings per common share
          Income from continuing operations     $2.47         $2.05       $1.01
          Discontinued operations-net of
               taxes on income                    .03           .04         .02
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Net income                                 $2.50         $2.09       $1.03
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Preferred Stock Purchase Rights

Preferred Stock Purchase Rights were granted in 1987. The rights are not
exercisable until either certain changes in ownership of the Company occur or an
announcement of a tender offer for at

<PAGE>


least 30% of the Company's common stock is made. If the rights become
exercisable, separate certificates evidencing the rights will be distributed and
each right will entitle the holder to purchase from the Company a new series of
preferred stock at a predefined price. The rights also contain an option to
purchase shares in a change-of-control situation. The preferred stock, in
addition to a preferred dividend and liquidation right, will entitle the holder
to vote, on a pro rata basis, with the Company's common stock.

The rights are redeemable by Pfizer at a fixed price until 10 days, or longer as
determined by the Board, after certain defined events, or at any time prior to
the expiration of the rights on October 5, 1997, if such events do not occur.

Through December 31, 1995, the Company had reserved 1.9 million preferred shares
as issuable pursuant to these rights. At the present time, the rights have no
dilutive effect on the earnings per common share calculation.

Employee Benefit Trust

In 1993, the Company sold 20 million shares of treasury stock to the Pfizer Inc.
Grantor Trust (the Trust) in exchange for a promissory note valued at
approximately $600 million at the date of sale. The Trust is being used
primarily to fund future obligations for previously approved Company benefit
plans over its 15-year term. The amount, representing unearned employee
benefits, is recorded as a deduction from shareholders' equity and is reduced as
employee benefits are satisfied.

In 1995 and 1994, .8 and .6 million shares, respectively, were released from the
Trust to satisfy exercised employee stock options and the Company's obligation
under other employee benefit plans. Compensation costs related to the other
employee benefit plans are recorded at fair market value at the date the shares
are released.

Stock Option Plans and Performance Awards

Under the Stock and Incentive Plan, the Company may grant options to any
employee, including officers, to purchase common stock at the market price on
the date an option is granted. The options may be exercised subject to continued
employment and certain other conditions. At December 31, 1995, options for
29,692,383 shares were exercisable. The Plan also provides for stock
appreciation rights, stock awards or performance unit awards.

In 1994, under the terms of the Stock and Incentive Plan, restricted stock 
awards were made to several key employees. Restrictions generally expire over 
a three-year period from the date of grant. Under the award, 29,984 shares 
were outstanding at December 31, 1995 with 2,500 shares issued during the 
year.

In 1993, the shareholders approved amendments to the Plan for an additional 22
million shares to be made available for future grants of options. The following
table summarizes information relative to the Plan:

     (shares)                                1995            1994          1993
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Under option January 1            44,242,410      38,588,634    35,720,378
     Granted (per share:
          $49.00 in 1995;
          $28.13 to $34.88 in 1994;
          $31.50 in 1993)               7,052,818       9,918,036     6,428,118
     Exercised (per share:
          $12.13 to $49.00 in 1995;
          $9.13 to $32.63 in 1994;
          $7.00 to $32.63 in 1993)     (7,548,762)     (3,562,050)   (2,904,320)
     Cancelled-available for
          future grants                  (842,249)       (697,552)     (611,548)
     Cancelled-not available for
          future grants                         -          (4,658)      (43,994)
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Under option December 31
          (per share:
          $15.13 to $49.00 in 1995;
          $12.13 to $40.50 in 1994;
          $9.13 to $40.50 in 1993)     42,904,217      44,242,410    38,588,634
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Available for grant
          December 31                   3,574,593       9,785,162    19,005,646
     ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Performance-Contingent Share Award Program (the Program), established in
1993, provides executives and other key employees with the right to earn awards
payable in shares of the Company's common stock with the actual payout
determined using two performance criteria. Actual issuance of shares occurs when
the performance period is completed and the criteria measured. The Program
provides for up to 20 million shares to be awarded. In 1995, 46,080 shares were
issued under the Program. At December 31, 1995, executives and other key
employees had the right to earn up to approximately 1.5 million shares.
Compensation cost related to the Program amounted to $15.4 and $7.5 million in
1995 and 1994, respectively.

Lease Commitments

Rent expense, net of sublease rentals, for the years ended December 31, 1995,
1994 and 1993 amounted to approximately $118.1, $94.4 and $87.2 million,
respectively. Total future minimum

<PAGE>

rental commitments under all non-cancellable leases for the years 1996 through
2000 and thereafter are approximately $28.2, $22.6, $16.7, $8.8, $6.8 and $185.9
million, respectively.

Under the more significant lease agreements, the Company must either pay 
directly for taxes, insurance, maintenance and other operating expenses or 
pay higher rentals when such expenses increase.

Acquisitions

n    In January 1995, the Company acquired the capital stock of certain
subsidiaries of SmithKline Beecham plc operating solely in the animal health
business and certain net assets used in the animal health business from other
SmithKline Beecham plc subsidiaries (collectively, SBAH) for approximately $1.5
billion, including direct costs of the acquisition. The acquisition was
substantially financed at closing by the issuance of commercial paper.

The Company's results of operations for 1995 include twelve months of SBAH's
activity in the U.S. and eleven months in international markets. The excess of
the purchase price over the estimated fair value of the tangible net assets
acquired has been allocated to identifiable intangibles of approximately $285
million and goodwill of approximately $790 million. The goodwill and
identifiable intangibles are being amortized on a straight-line basis over
periods of 10 to 40 years.

Sales of the SBAH business were approximately $644 million for 1994. Pro forma
net income and earnings per share for 1994 that reflect this acquisition as if
it had occurred as of the beginning of the period result in a negative impact of
approximately 2% on both reported amounts. Pro forma results include a period
comparable to 1995 as well as interest expense and amortization of goodwill and
other intangibles related to the acquisition. The pro forma results of
operations are not necessarily indicative of the results of operations that
would have occurred had the acquisition actually occurred as of the beginning of
the period nor are these results intended to be a projection of future
consolidated results of operations.

n    In March 1995, the Company acquired NAMIC U.S.A. Corporation for
approximately 4.4 million shares of the Company's common shares in a stock
transaction valued at approximately $170 million, including direct costs of the
acquisition.

n    In August 1995, the Company acquired Bain de Soleil skin care products from
the Procter & Gamble Company. 

The results of operations of these acquired businesses have been included 
subsequent to the respective dates of acquisition. Pro forma results of 
operations that reflect these acquisitions as if they had occurred at the 
beginning of the periods presented would not be materially different from the 
reported amounts.

In 1994, the Company acquired:

n    Certain assets of Flavor Technology Inc., a specialty flavors business, for
approximately $32 million. These assets are a part of the food science business
which is reported as a discontinued operation.

n    Restiva Italiana S.p.A. for approximately $26 million. Restiva produces and
sells health and skin care products.

n    Rovifarma, S.A. for approximately $24 million. Rovifarma is a Spanish
producer and distributor of over-the-counter products.

In 1993, the Company purchased Charwell Pharmaceuticals Limited, a 
distributor of over-the-counter consumer health care products, for 
approximately $41.5 million.

All acquisitions were recorded under the purchase method of accounting.

Discontinued Operations

In December 1995, the Company agreed to sell substantially all the net assets of
its food science business to Cultor Ltd., a publicly held international
nutrition company based in Finland, for approximately $350 million in cash. The
sale was completed in January 1996. Disposal of the remaining assets, which are
not material to the food science business, is expected to be completed over
several years. The food science business has been reported as a discontinued
operation.

The Company recorded a loss on disposal of the food science business of $3.0
million after provisions for direct transaction costs and estimated charges
including exit costs, employee severance benefits and professional fees. 

Below is a summary of its operating results:

     (millions of dollars)               1995       1994      1993
- --------------------------------------------------------------------
     Net sales                           $328.4     $304.0    $315.9
- --------------------------------------------------------------------
     Income before provision for
          taxes on income                $ 30.9     $ 31.0    $ 16.1
     Provision for taxes on income          9.2        9.3       3.6
- --------------------------------------------------------------------
     Net income                           $21.7     $ 21.7    $ 12.5
- --------------------------------------------------------------------

At December 31, 1995, net assets of the food science business of approximately
$330 million were included in "Prepaid expenses, taxes and other assets."

Insurance

<PAGE>

The Company maintains insurance coverage it believes to be adequate for its
needs. Under its insurance contracts, the Company usually accepts self-insured
retentions appropriate for the specific risks of its business.

Litigation

The Company is involved in a number of claims and litigations, including product
liability claims and litigations considered normal in the nature of its
businesses. These include suits involving various pharmaceutical and hospital
products that allege either reaction to or injury from use of the product.

As previously disclosed, numerous claims have been brought against the Company
and Shiley Incorporated, a wholly owned subsidiary, alleging either personal
injury from fracture of 60 DEGREES or 70 DEGREES Shiley Convexo-Concave (C/C)
heart valves, or anxiety that properly functioning implanted valves might
fracture in the future or personal injury from a prophylactic replacement of a
functioning valve.

In an attempt to resolve all claims alleging anxiety that properly functioning
valves might fracture in the future, the Company entered into a settlement
agreement in January 1992 in Bowling v. Shiley, et al., a case brought in the
United States District Court for the Southern District of Ohio, that establishes
a worldwide settlement class of people with C/C heart valves and their spouses,
except those who elect to exclude themselves. The settlement provides for a
Consultation Fund of $90 million to $140 million (depending on the number of
claims filed) from which valve recipients who make claims will receive payments
that are intended to cover their cost of consultation with cardiologists or
other health care providers with respect to their valves. The settlement
agreement establishes a second fund of at least $75 million to support C/C
valve-related research, including the development of techniques to identify
valve recipients who may have significant risk of fracture, and to cover the
unreimbursed medical expenses that valve recipients may incur for certain
procedures related to the valves. The Company's obligation as to coverage of
these unreimbursed medical expenses is not subject to any dollar limitation.
Following a hearing on the fairness of the settlement, it was approved by the
court on August 19, 1992. An appeal of the court's approval of the settlement
was dismissed on December 21, 1993, by the United States Court of Appeals for
the Sixth Circuit. A motion for rehearing en banc was denied on March 4, 1994,
and the U.S. Supreme Court denied a writ of certiorari on October 3, 1994. On
August 8, 1994, the Sixth Circuit dismissed an appeal from the denial of a
motion by the same appellants to vacate the judgment approving the settlement,
and the U.S. Supreme Court denied a writ of certiorari on January 9, 1995.
Another appeal to the Sixth Circuit by the same appellants regarding the denial
of their earlier motion to intervene is pending. It is expected that most of the
costs arising from the Bowling class settlement will be covered by insurance and
the proceeds of the sale of certain product lines of the Shiley businesses in
1992. Of approximately 900 implantees (and spouses of some of them) who opted
out of the Bowling settlement class, nine have cases pending; approximately 792
have been resolved; and approximately 100 have never filed a case or claim.

Several claims relating to elective reoperations of valve recipients are
currently pending. Some of these claims relate to elective reoperations covered
by the Bowling class settlement described above, and, therefore, the claimants
are entitled to certain benefits in accordance with the settlement. Such
claimants, if they irrevocably waive all of the benefits of the settlement, may
pursue separate litigation to recover damages in spite of the class settlement.
The Company is defending these claims.

Generally, the plaintiffs in all of the pending heart valve litigations
discussed above seek money damages. Based on the experience of the Company in
defending these claims to date, including available insurance and reserves, the
Company is of the opinion that these actions should not have a material adverse
effect on the financial position or the results of operations of the Company.

On September 30, 1993, Dairyland Insurance Co., a carrier providing excess
liability coverage ("excess carrier") in the early 1980s, commenced an action in
the California Superior Court in Orange County, seeking a declaratory judgment
that it was not obligated to provide insurance coverage for Shiley heart valve
liability claims. On October 8, 1993, Pfizer filed cross-complaints against
Dairyland and filed third-party complaints against 73 other excess carriers who
sold excess liability policies covering periods from 1978 to 1985, seeking
damages and declaratory judgments that they are obligated to pay for defense and
indemnity to the extent not paid by other carriers. Several such claims have
been resolved and the remainder are involved in pretrial discovery.

The Company's operations are subject to federal, state, local and foreign
environmental laws and regulations. Under the Comprehensive Environmental
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, as amended ("CERCLA" or
"Superfund"), the Company has been designated as a potentially responsible party
by the United States Environmental Protection Agency with respect to certain
waste sites with which the Company may have had direct or indirect involvement.
Similar designations have been made by some state

<PAGE>


environmental agencies under applicable state superfund laws. Such designations
are made regardless of the extent of the Company's involvement. There are also
claims that the Company may be a responsible party or participant with respect
to several waste site matters in foreign jurisdictions. Such claims have been
made by the filing of a complaint, the issuance of an administrative directive
or order, or the issuance of a notice or demand letter. These claims are in
various stages of administrative or judicial proceedings. They include demands
for recovery of past governmental costs and for future investigative or remedial
actions. In many cases, the dollar amount of the claim is not specified. In most
cases, claims have been asserted against a number of other entities for the same
recovery or other relief as was asserted against the Company. The Company is
currently participating in remedial action at a number of sites under federal,
state, local and foreign laws.

To the extent possible with the limited amount of information available at this
time, the Company has evaluated its responsibility for costs and related
liability with respect to the above sites and is of the opinion that the
Company's liability with respect to these sites should not have a material
adverse effect on the financial position or the results of operations of the
Company. In arriving at this conclusion, the Company has considered, among other
things, the payments that have been made with respect to the sites in the past;
the factors, such as volume and relative toxicity, ordinarily applied to
allocate defense and remedial costs at such sites; the probable costs to be paid
by the other potentially responsible parties; total projected remedial costs for
a site, if known; existing technology; and the currently enacted laws and
regulations. The Company anticipates that a portion of these costs and related
liability will be covered by available insurance.

Through the early 1970s, Pfizer (Minerals Division) and Quigley Company, Inc., a
wholly owned subsidiary, sold a minimal amount of one construction product and
several refractory products containing some asbestos. These sales were
discontinued thereafter. Although these sales represented a minor market share,
the Company has been named as one of a number of defendants in numerous
lawsuits. These actions, and actions related to the Company's sale of talc
products in the past, claim personal injury resulting from exposure to
asbestos-containing products, and nearly all seek general and punitive damages.
In these actions, the Company or Quigley is typically one of a number of
defendants, and both are members of the Center for Claims Resolution (the
"CCR"), a joint defense organization of twenty defendants that is defending
these claims. The Company and Quigley are responsible for varying percentages of
defense and liability payments for all members of the CCR. Prior to September
1990, the cases involving talc products were defended by the CCR, but the
Company is now overseeing its own defense of these actions. A number of cases
alleging property damage from asbestos-containing products installed in
buildings have also been brought against Pfizer.

On January 15, 1993, a class action complaint and settlement agreement were
filed in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of
Pennsylvania involving all personal injury claims by persons who have been
exposed to asbestos-containing products but who have not yet filed a personal
injury action against the members of the CCR. The settlement agreement
establishes a claims-processing mechanism that will provide historic settlement
values upon proof of impaired medical condition as well as claims-processing
rates over ten years. In addition, the shares allocated to the CCR members
eliminate joint and several liability. The court has determined that the
settlement is fair and reasonable. Subsequently, the court entered an injunction
enforcing its determination. An appeal from that injunction is pending in the
United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit.

At approximately the time it filed the future claims class action, the CCR 
settled approximately 16,360 personal injury cases on behalf of its members 
including Pfizer and Quigley. The CCR has continued to settle remaining and 
opt-out cases and claims on a similar basis to past settlements. The total 
pending number of cases as of December 31, 1995 is 14,305 asbestos cases 
against Quigley; 5,764 asbestos cases against Pfizer Inc.; and 70 talc cases 
against Pfizer Inc.

Costs incurred by the Company in defending the asbestos personal injury 
claims and the property damage claims, as well as settlements and damage 
awards in connection therewith, are largely insured against under policies 
issued by several primary insurance carriers and a number of excess carriers. 
The Company believes that its costs incurred in defending and ultimately 
disposing of the asbestos personal injury claims, as well as the property 
damage claims, will be largely covered by insurance policies issued by 
carriers that have agreed to provide coverage, subject to deductibles, 
exclusions, retentions and policy limits. In connection with the future 
claims settlement, the defendants have commenced a third-party action against 
their respective excess insurance carriers that have not agreed to provide 
coverage seeking a declaratory judgment that (a) the future claims settlement 
is fair and reasonable as to the carriers; (b) the carriers had adequate 
notice of the future claims class settlement; and (c) the carriers are 
obligated to provide coverage for asbestos personal injury claims. Based on 
the Company's experience in defending the claims to date and the amount of 
insurance coverage available, the Company is of the opinion that the actions 
should not ultimately have a material adverse effect on the financial 
position or the results of operations of the Company.

The United States Environmental Protection Agency-Region 1 and the Department of
Justice have informed the Company that the federal government is contemplating
an enforcement action arising primarily out of a December 1993 multimedia
environmental inspection, as well as certain state inspections, of the Company's
Groton, Connecticut facility.

<PAGE>

The Company is engaged in discussions with the governmental agencies and does
not believe that an enforcement action, if brought, will have a material adverse
effect on the financial position or the results of operations of the Company.

The Company has been named, together with numerous other manufacturers of 
brand name prescription drugs and certain companies that distribute brand 
name prescription drugs, in suits in federal and state courts brought by 
various groups of retail pharmacy companies. The federal cases consist 
principally of a class action by retail pharmacies (including approximately 
30 named plaintiffs)(the Federal Class Action), as well as additional actions 
by approximately 3,500 individual retail pharmacies and a group of chain and 
supermarket pharmacies (the "individual actions"). These cases, which have 
been transferred to the United States District Court for the Northern 
District of Illinois and coordinated for pretrial purposes, allege that the 
defendant drug manufacturers violated the Sherman Act by unlawfully agreeing 
with each other (and, as alleged in some cases, with wholesalers) not to 
extend to retail pharmacy companies the same discounts allegedly extended to 
mail order pharmacies, managed care companies and certain other customers, 
and by unlawfully discriminating against retail pharmacy companies by not 
extending them such discounts. On November 15, 1994, the federal court 
certified a class (the Federal Class Action) consisting of all persons or 
entities who, since October 15, 1989, bought brand name prescription drugs 
from any manufacturer or wholesaler defendant, but specifically excluding 
government entities, mail order pharmacies, HMOs, hospitals, clinics and 
nursing homes. Fifteen manufacturer defendants, including the Company, have 
agreed to settle the Federal Class Action subject to court approval. The 
Company's share, pursuant to an Agreement as of January 31, 1996, is $31.25 
million, payable in four annual installments without interest. The Company 
continues to believe that there was no conspiracy, and specifically denies 
liability in the Settlement Agreement, but has agreed to settle to avoid the 
monetary and other costs of litigation. The Settlement was filed with the 
Court on February 9, 1996. A hearing was held on February 14, and the 
settlement was preliminarily approved and a final fairness hearing was set 
for March 27. The Court has tentatively scheduled the Federal Class Action 
for trial commencing May 7, 1996. No other action has been scheduled for 
trial.In addition, class actions have been filed in state courts, alleging 
injury to consumers as well as retail pharmacies from the failure to give 
discounts to retail pharmacy companies. Both a consumer class and a retailer 
class have been certified in separate California actions. Consumer class 
actions filed in Colorado and Washington were dismissed, and are now on 
appeal. The Company was dismissed from a consumer class action in Wisconsin, 
but a determination of the finality of that dismissal is pending. Consumer 
class actions are also pending in Alabama, Arizona, Maine, Michigan and New 
York. Retailer class actions are also pending in Alabama and Minnesota. 

The Company believes that these cases, which seek damages and certain 
injunctive relief, are without merit.

Schneider (USA) Inc. and Schneider (Europe) AG have been named, together with
Advanced Cardiovascular System, Inc., in a federal antitrust action brought on
January 2, 1996, by Boston Scientific Corporation and SciMed Life Systems, Inc.
(a subsidiary of Boston Scientific) in the U.S. District Court, District of
Massachusetts. The suit alleges that the defendants unlawfully obtained and
enforced certain patents covering rapid exchange angioplasty catheters, and
conspired against the plaintiffs by, among other allegations, their settlement
of patent infringement litigation in December of 1991. The suit seeks
unspecified treble damages and injunctive relief. The Company believes that the
case is without merit.

FDA administrative proceedings relating to Plax are pending, principally an 
industry-wide call for data on all anti-plaque products by the FDA. The call 
for data notice specified that products that have been marketed for a 
material time and to a material extent may remain on the market pending FDA 
review of the data, provided the manufacturer has a good faith belief that 
the product is generally recognized as safe and effective and is not 
misbranded. The Company believes that Plax satisfied these requirements and 
prepared a response to the FDA's request, which was filed on June 17, 1991. 
This filing, as well as the filings of other manufacturers, is still under 
review and is currently being considered by an FDA Advisory Committee.

A consolidated class action on behalf of persons who allegedly purchased Pfizer
common stock during the March 24, 1989 through February 26, 1990 period is
pending in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New
York. This lawsuit, which commenced on July 13, 1990, alleges that the Company
and certain officers and former directors and officers violated federal
securities law by failing to disclose potential liability arising out of
personal injury suits involving Shiley heart valves and seeks damages in an
unspecified amount. The defendants in this action believe that the suit is
without merit. A derivative action commenced on April 2, 1990, against certain
directors and officers and former directors and officers alleging breaches of
fiduciary duty and other common law violations in connection with the
manufacture and distribution of Shiley heart valves is pending in the Superior
Court, Orange County, California. The complaint seeks, among other forms of
relief, damages in an unspecified amount. The defendants in the action believe
that the suit is without merit.

A purported class action entitled Bradshaw v. Pfizer Inc. and Howmedica Inc. is
pending in the U.S. District Court, Northern District of Ohio. The action seeks
monetary and injunctive relief, including medical monitoring, on behalf of
patients implanted with the Howmedica P.C.A. one-piece acetabular hip component,
which was manufactured by Howmedica from 1983 to 1990. The

<PAGE>

complaint alleges that the prostheses were defectively designed and manufactured
and posed undisclosed risks to implantees. The federal magistrate judge has
recommended that the district court deny the plaintiffs' motion to certify the
case as a class action. The Company believes that the suit is without merit.

From 1994 to 1995, seven purported class actions were filed against American
Medical Systems ("AMS") in federal courts in South Carolina, California,
Minnesota (2), Indiana, Ohio and Louisiana. The California, Ohio and Indiana
suits and one Minnesota suit also name Pfizer Inc. as a defendant, based on its
ownership of AMS. The suits seek monetary and injunctive relief on the basis of
allegations that implantable penile prostheses are prone to unreasonably high
rates of mechanical failure and/or various autoimmune diseases as a result of
silicone materials. On September 30, 1994, the federal Judicial Panel on
Multidistrict Litigation denied the various plaintiffs' motions to consolidate
or coordinate the cases for pretrial proceedings. On February 28, 1995, the
Court in the Ohio suit conditionally granted plaintiffs' motion for class
certification; on March 3, 1995, the court in the California suit denied
plaintiffs' motion for class certification; and on October 25, 1995, the court
in the Indiana suit denied plaintiffs' motion for class certification; on
February 15, 1996, the United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit
reversed the Ohio Court's conditional certification. The Company believes the
suits are without merit.

In June, 1993, the Ministry of Justice of the State of Sao Paulo, Brazil
commenced a civil public action against the Company's Brazilian subsidiary,
Laboratorios Pfizer Ltda. (Pfizer Brazil) asserting that during a period in
1991, Pfizer Brazil withheld sale of the pharmaceutical product Diabinese in
violation of antitrust and consumer protection laws. The action seeks the award
of moral, economic and personal damages to individuals and the payment to a
public reserve fund. On February 8, 1996, the trial court issued a decision
holding Pfizer Brazil liable. The award of damages to individuals and the
payment into the public reserve fund will be determined in a subsequent phase of
the proceedings. The trial court's opinion sets out a formula for calculating
the payment into the public reserve fund which could result in a sum of
approximately $88 million. The total amount of damages payable to eligible
individuals under the decision would depend on the number of persons eventually
making claims. Pfizer Brazil is appealing this decision. The Company believes
that this action is without merit and should not have a material adverse effect
on the financial position or the results of operations of the Company.

For information on income tax adjustments proposed by the U.S. and Belgian tax
authorities, see the footnote "Taxes on Income" beginning on page 50.

Subsequent Event

In January 1996, the Company completed the acquisition of the Leibinger
Companies, a leader in the manufacture of specialty surgical instruments and
implantable devices used in skull, jaw, facial, hand and foot surgery.

Segment Information and Geographic Data

The Company is a research-based, global health care company. In 1995, the
Company registered net sales in excess of $10 million in each of 45 countries
outside the U.S., with no single country, other than the U.S. and Japan,
contributing more than 10% to total net sales. Segment information (including
major product groups) and geographic data as of and for the years ended December
31, 1995, 1994 and 1993 are shown on pages 40 and 41 and in the footnote
"Financial Subsidiaries" on page 47 and are incorporated in this footnote.

The Company's operations consist of three business segments and a financial 
subsidiaries group:

Health care: a broad line of pharmaceutical products (including cardiovascular
agents, anti-infectives, central nervous system agents, anti-inflammatories and
antidiabetes agents) as well as hospital products (including bone and joint
prostheses, diagnostic and therapeutic products used in the treatment of
cardiovascular disease, electrosurgical and ultrasonic surgical devices and
implantable urological devices). Health care products are sold to wholesale and
retail outlets, public and private hospitals, managed care organizations,
government and the medical profession.

Animal health: animal health products for livestock and companion animals
including antibiotic and vitamin feed supplements, animal vaccines and other
veterinary items. Animal health products are sold through drug wholesalers,
distributors, retail outlets and directly to users, including feed
manufacturers, animal producers and veterinarians.

Consumer health care: over-the-counter health care items and oral care products.
Consumer products are sold to wholesalers and retailers.

Financial subsidiaries: a banking operation that makes loans and accepts 
deposits in international markets and a small captive insurance operation 
that reinsures certain assets, inland transport and marine cargo of the 
Company's subsidiaries.


<PAGE>


Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies



<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                          Quarterly Consolidated Statement of Income (Unaudited)

                                                            Quarter
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(millions of dollars except per share data)   First     Second    Third     Fourth    Year
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                     <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>
1995
Net sales                               $2,337.9  $2,400.7  $2,538.5  $2,744.3  $10,021.4
Costs and expenses
     Cost of sales                         509.2     551.8     535.7     567.4    2,164.1
     Selling, informational and
     administrative expenses               848.6     966.7     960.8   1,078.6    3,854.7
     Research and development expenses     312.8     354.5     350.6     424.5    1,442.4
     Other deductions-net                   39.1      60.2      64.6      97.1      261.0
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income from continuing operations
     before provision for taxes on income
     and minority interests                628.2     467.5     626.8     576.7    2,299.2
Provision for taxes on income              207.3     154.3     206.8     169.6      738.0
Minority interests                           2.3       2.3        .9       1.5        7.0
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income from continuing operations          418.6     310.9     419.1     405.6    1,554.2
Discontinued operations-net                  1.8       5.4       6.2       5.3       18.7
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net income                              $  420.4  $  316.3   $ 425.3  $  410.9  $ 1,572.9
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Earnings per common share:
     Continuing operations              $    .68  $    .49  $    .66  $    .64  $    2.47
     Discontinued operations-net             .00       .01       .01       .01        .03
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Net income                         $    .68  $    .50  $    .67  $    .65  $    2.50
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cash dividends paid per common share    $    .26  $    .26  $    .26  $    .26  $    1.04
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Stock prices*
     High                               $ 45      $ 47 1/2  $ 54 1/4  $ 66 7/8  $  66 7/8
     Low                                $ 37 1/4  $ 40 1/4  $ 43 1/2  $ 52 5/8  $  37 1/4
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

1994
Net sales                               $1,911.1  $1,846.2  $2,006.7  $2,213.3  $ 7,977.3
Costs and expenses
     Cost of sales                         383.5     415.0     430.5     493.2    1,722.2
     Selling, informational and
          administrative expenses          715.8     783.4     780.2     904.7    3,184.1
     Research and development expenses     251.5     258.8     292.7     323.1    1,126.1
     Other deductions-net                   35.7      29.6      24.3      24.8      114.4
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income from continuing operations
     before provision for taxes on
     income and minority interests         524.6     359.4     479.0     467.5    1,830.5
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Provision for taxes on income              157.4     107.8     143.7     140.3      549.2
Minority interests                            .3       1.7       1.4       1.2        4.6
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Income from continuing operations          366.9     249.9     333.9     326.0    1,276.7
Discontinued operations-net                  3.8       7.3       2.6       8.0       21.7
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Net income                              $  370.7  $  257.2  $  336.5  $  334.0  $ 1,298.4
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Earnings per common share:
     Continuing operations              $    .58  $    .41  $    .54  $    .52  $    2.05
     Discontinued operations-net             .01       .01       .00       .02        .04
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Net income                         $    .59  $    .42  $    .54  $    .54  $    2.09
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cash dividends paid per common share    $   .235  $   .235  $   .235  $   .235  $     .94
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Stock prices*
     High                               $ 35      $ 32 3/8  $ 35 1/4  $ 39 3/4  $  39 3/4
     Low                                $ 26 5/8  $ 26 5/8  $ 29 5/8  $ 34      $  26 5/8
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>


*As reported in The Wall Street Journal; adjusted for the second quarter 1995
two-for-one stock split in the form of a 100 percent stock dividend.

- -In December 1995, the Company agreed to sell substantially all the net assets
of its food science business to Cultor Ltd. for approximately $350 million. The
food science business has been reported as a discontinued operation. The sale
was completed in January 1996.

- -In the fourth quarter of 1995, the Company recognized net pre-tax income of
approximately $57 million related to the completion of all appeals in a patent
infringement case with SciMed Life Systems, Inc., a provision for various
litigation issues and pre-tax charges of approximately $53 million that resulted
from decisions to withdraw from a product line and to modify certain
distribution relationships. These items are included in Other deductions-net.
- -As of January 31, 1996, there were approximately 62,855 holders of the
Company's common stock (symbol PFE).

<PAGE>

#

Financial Summary
Pfizer Inc and Subsidiary Companies

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                       Year ended December 31
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     (millions of dollars except per share data)                 1995           1994           1993          1992        1991 
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     <S>                                                         <C>            <C>            <C>           <C>         <C>     
                                                                                                                                 
     Net sales                                                   $10,021.4      $ 7,977.3      $7,161.8      $6,871.2    $6,579.5
     Costs and expenses                                                                                                          
          Cost of sales                                            2,164.1        1,722.2       1,559.0       1,765.6     1,929.4
          Selling, informational and                                                                                             
          administrative expenses                                  3,854.7        3,184.1       3,005.7       2,838.4     2,680.3
          Research and development expenses                        1,442.4        1,126.1         961.3         850.7       744.8
          Divestitures, restructuring and unusual items-net*             -              -         740.6        (141.0)      300.0
          Other (income)/deductions-net                              261.0          114.4          59.9          16.5        11.8
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Income from continuing operations before                                                                                    
          provision for taxes on income, minority                                                                                
          interests and cumulative effect of                                                                                     
          accounting changes                                       2,299.2        1,830.5         835.3       1,541.0       913.2
     Provision for taxes on income                                   738.0          549.2         187.7         440.4       211.4
     Minority interests                                                7.0            4.6           2.6           2.7         3.2
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Income from continuing operations before                                                                                    
          cumulative effect of accounting changes                  1,554.2        1,276.7         645.0       1,097.9       698.6 
     Discontinued operations-net                                      18.7           21.7          12.5          (4.4)       23.5 
     Cumulative effect of accounting changes                             -              -             -        (282.6)**        -
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Net income                                                  $ 1,572.9      $ 1,298.4      $  657.5      $  810.9    $  722.1
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Effective tax rate                                               32.1%          30.0%         22.5%         28.6%       23.1%
     Depreciation                                                   $320.9      $   275.4      $  241.1      $  242.6    $  217.7
     Capital additions                                               696.3          671.5         634.2         674.2       593.8
     Cash dividends paid                                             658.5          594.6         536.1         486.5       437.1
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     As of December 31                                                                                                           
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Working capital                                                $965.2      $   962.5      $1,289.6      $2,167.4    $1,387.7
     Property, plant and equipment-net                                                                                           
          of accumulated depreciation                              3,472.6        3,073.2       2,632.5       2,305.1     2,381.0
     Total assets                                                 12,729.3       11,098.5       9,330.9       9,590.1     9,634.6
     Long-term debt                                                  833.0          604.2         570.5         571.3       396.6 
     Long-term capital+                                            6,552.3        5,178.6       4,664.7       5,471.7     5,742.1 
     Shareholders' equity                                          5,506.6        4,323.9       3,865.5       4,718.6     5,026.3 
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Common share data                                                                                                           
          Income from continuing operations                                                                                      
               before cumulative effect of accounting                                                                            
               changes                                           $    2.47      $    2.05      $   1.01      $   1.63    $   1.03
          Discontinued operations-net                                  .03            .04           .02          (.01)        .03 
          Cumulative effect of accounting changes                        -              -             -          (.42)**        - 
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
               Net income                                        $    2.50      $    2.09      $   1.03      $   1.20    $   1.06 
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Market value per common share (December 31)                    $63.00      $   38.63      $  34.50      $  36.25    $  42.00 
     Cash dividends paid per common share                             1.04            .94           .84           .74         .66 
     Shareholders' equity per common share                            8.90           7.10          6.22          7.26        7.63 
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Weighted average number of common and                                                                                       
          common share equivalents                                                                                               
          outstanding used to compute                                                                                            
          earnings per common share (thousands)                    629,509        620,430       640,774       673,078     678,686 
     Number of employees (thousands)                                  43.8           40.3          40.0          39.9        43.4 
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Net sales per employee (thousands of dollars)                    $229       $    198      $    179      $    172    $    152 
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>


<PAGE>


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                     Year ended December 31
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     (millions of dollars except per share data)                      1990      1989      1988      1987      1986      1985
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     <S>                                                              <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>       <C>
                                                                      
     Net sales                                                        $5,858.5  $5,162.1  $4,873.0  $4,406.3  $4,060.4  $3,632.6
     Costs and expenses                                               
          Cost of sales                                                1,814.7   1,670.8   1,634.3   1,518.2   1,409.2   1,232.6
          Selling, informational and                                  
          administrative expenses                                      2,384.3   2,043.2   1,817.5   1,626.7   1,412.3   1,265.1
          Research and development expenses                              626.9     518.8     459.4     386.4     321.8     274.6
          Divestitures, restructuring and unusual items-net*                 -         -         -         -         -         -
          Other (income)/deductions-net                                  (41.9)     51.8     (93.1)    (66.2)     (7.2)     (4.2)
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Income from continuing operations before                         
          provision for taxes on income, minority                     
          interests and cumulative effect of                          
          accounting changes                                           1,074.5     877.5   1,054.9     941.2     924.3     864.5
     Provision for taxes on income                                       290.1     221.5     295.7     295.4     288.0     290.7
     Minority interests                                                    4.2       4.1       3.1       3.3       4.2       5.3
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Income from continuing operations before                         
          cumulative effect of accounting changes                        780.2     651.9     756.1     642.5     632.1     568.5
     Discontinued operations-net                                          21.0      29.2      35.2      47.7      27.9      11.2
     Cumulative effect of accounting changes                                 -         -         -         -         -         -
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Net income                                                       $  801.2  $  681.1  $  791.3  $  690.2  $  660.0  $  579.7
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Effective tax rate                                                   27.0%     25.2%     28.0%     31.4%     31.2%     33.6%
     Depreciation                                                     $  199.9  $  184.3  $  176.8  $  162.0  $  147.1  $  129.5
     Capital additions                                                   547.5     456.5     343.7     258.3     196.1     195.8
     Cash dividends paid                                                 396.7     364.0     330.1     296.8     269.7     241.2
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     As of December 31                                                
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Working capital                                                  $1,319.0  $1,593.2  $1,750.5  $2,144.1  $1,728.8  $1,708.7
     Property, plant and equipment-net                                
          of accumulated depreciation                                  2,109.8   1,784.1   1,655.1   1,505.9   1,351.5   1,268.5
     Total assets                                                      9,052.0   8,324.8   7,593.2   6,872.3   5,178.5   4,458.7
     Long-term debt                                                      193.3     190.6     226.9     248.9     285.4     323.5
     Long-term capital+                                                5,665.8   5,062.1   4,865.9   4,471.2   3,926.1   3,453.4
     Shareholders' equity                                              5,092.0   4,535.8   4,301.1   3,882.4   3,415.2   2,927.3
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Common share data                                                
          Income from continuing operations                           
               before cumulative effect of accounting                 
               changes                                                $   1.16  $    .97  $   1.13  $    .95  $    .93  $    .84
          Discontinued operations-net                                      .03       .04       .05       .07       .04       .02
          Cumulative effect of accounting changes                            -         -         -         -         -         -
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
               Net income                                             $   1.19  $   1.01  $   1.18  $   1.02  $    .97  $    .86
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Market value per common share (December 31)                      $  20.19  $  17.38  $  14.50  $  11.66  $  15.25  $  12.66
     Cash dividends paid per common share                                  .60       .55       .50       .45       .41       .37
     Shareholders' equity per common share                                7.71      6.86      6.50      5.90      5.18      4.47
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Weighted average number of common and                            
          common share equivalents                                    
          outstanding used to compute                                 
          earnings per common share (thousands)                        674,304   678,784   677,696   682,252   683,184   682,224
     Number of employees (thousands)                                      41.5      40.8      39.6      39.3      38.6      37.8
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Net sales per employee (thousands of dollars)                    $    141  $    127  $    123  $    112  $    105  $     96
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

</TABLE>


*Divestitures, restructuring and unusual items-net include the following:
 1993-Pre-tax charges of approximately $745 million and $56 million to cover
worldwide restructuring programs as well as unusual items and a gain of
approximately $60 million realized on the sale of the Company's remaining
interest in Minerals Technologies Inc.   
 1992-Pre-tax gain of $259 million on the sale of a business offset by 
pre-tax charges of $175 million for restructuring, consolidating and 
streamlining. In addition, it includes pre-tax curtailment gains of $57 
million associated with postretirement benefits other than pensions of 
divested operations.
 1991-A pre-tax charge of $300 million for potential future Shiley C/C heart
valve fracture claims.

**Accounting changes adopted January 1, 1992: SFAS No. 106-$312.6 million or
$.46 per share; SFAS No. 109-credit of $30.0 million or $.04 per share.

+Defined as long-term debt, deferred taxes on income, minority interests and
shareholders' equity.


The results of operations of the food science business are reported above as a
discontinued operation in the Company's statement of income for all years
presented.

Common share data for the years 1985-1994 and 1985-1990, respectively, have 
been restated for the 1995 and 1991 two-for-one stock splits, respectively.

SFAS No. 94, Consolidation of All Majority-Owned Subsidiaries, was adopted in
1987 and the Financial Summary for 1985 and 1986 has been restated.#


</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-13.(B)
<SEQUENCE>5
<DESCRIPTION>ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 11-K
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
                            ------------------------
 
                                   FORM 11-K
 
             FOR ANNUAL REPORTS OF EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE, SAVINGS
                 AND SIMILAR PLANS PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(d) OF
                      THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
(MARK ONE)
/X/  ANNUAL  REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(d)  OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
     1934 (FEE REQUIRED)
 
                  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995
 
                                       OR
 
/ /  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE  ACT
     OF 1934 (NO FEE REQUIRED)
 
                   For the transition period from ... to ...
                         Commission file number 1-3619
 
A.  FULL  TITLE OF THE PLAN AND THE ADDRESS  OF THE PLAN, IF DIFFERENT FROM THAT
    OF THE ISSUER NAMED BELOW:
 
                       PFIZER SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN
 
B.  NAME OF ISSUER OF THE SECURITIES HELD  PURSUANT TO THE PLAN AND THE  ADDRESS
    OF ITS PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICES:
 
                                  PFIZER INC.
                              235 EAST 42ND STREET
                            NEW YORK, NEW YORK 10017
 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<PAGE>
                       PFIZER SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN
                       STATEMENT OF NET ASSETS AVAILABLE
                               FOR PLAN BENEFITS
                               DECEMBER 31, 1995
                   (THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS EXCEPT UNIT VALUES)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                           NON-PARTICIPANT
                                                              DIRECTED
                                                           ---------------                    PARTICIPANT DIRECTED
                                                           COMPANY COMMON    ------------------------------------------------------
                                                 TOTAL       STOCK FUND        FUND A      FUND B      FUND C    FUND D   LOAN FUND
                                               ----------  ---------------   ----------  ----------  ----------  -------  ---------
<S>                                            <C>         <C>               <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>      <C>
Investments, at fair value:
  Pfizer Inc. common stock:
    Company Common
     Stock Fund, 10,451,382 shares, cost
     $132,164; Fund C, 10,048,630 shares,
     cost $180,795...........................  $1,291,501    $  658,437      $       --  $       --  $  633,064  $    --   $    --
  Intermediate Treasury Bond Fund, The
   Northern Trust Company, cost $137,223.....     140,002                       140,002          --          --       --        --
  Collective Stock Index Fund, The Northern
   Trust Company, cost $59,403...............     110,014            --                     110,014          --       --        --
Investment contracts with insurance
 companies, at contract value................      41,089            --          41,089          --          --       --        --
Investments, at cost which approximates fair
 value:
  Loans to participants......................      31,707            --              --          --          --       --    31,707
  Cash and short-term securities.............      16,056            90              94          --          69   15,803        --
                                               ----------  ---------------   ----------  ----------  ----------  -------  ---------
    Total investments........................   1,630,369       658,527         181,185     110,014     633,133   15,803    31,707
Interest receivable..........................       2,608             2           2,525           1           1       79        --
Contributions receivable from employers,
 including amounts collected from
 employees...................................       8,338         2,554           1,788       1,492       2,143      361        --
                                               ----------  ---------------   ----------  ----------  ----------  -------  ---------
                                                1,641,315       661,083         185,498     111,507     635,277   16,243    31,707
Payables arising from securities purchased...         (54)           --              (1)        (40)        (13)      --        --
                                               ----------  ---------------   ----------  ----------  ----------  -------  ---------
Net assets available for plan benefits --
 Note 8......................................  $1,641,261    $  661,083      $  185,497  $  111,467  $  635,264  $16,243   $31,707
                                               ----------  ---------------   ----------  ----------  ----------  -------  ---------
                                               ----------  ---------------   ----------  ----------  ----------  -------  ---------
Number of units outstanding at end of year...                34,575,800      16,345,905   8,249,272  33,396,661  1,472,371
Unit Value -- Note 1.........................                    $18.96          $11.29      $13.40      $18.91   $10.69
</TABLE>
 
See Notes to Financial Statements which are an integral part of these financial
                                  statements.
 
                                       1
<PAGE>
                       PFIZER SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN
                       STATEMENT OF NET ASSETS AVAILABLE
                               FOR PLAN BENEFITS
                               DECEMBER 31, 1994
                   (THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS EXCEPT UNIT VALUES)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                           NON-PARTICIPANT
                                                              DIRECTED
                                                           ---------------                    PARTICIPANT DIRECTED
                                                           COMPANY COMMON    ------------------------------------------------------
                                                 TOTAL       STOCK FUND        FUND A      FUND B      FUND C    FUND D   LOAN FUND
                                               ----------  ---------------   ----------  ----------  ----------  -------  ---------
<S>                                            <C>         <C>               <C>         <C>         <C>         <C>      <C>
Investments, at fair value:
  Pfizer Inc. common stock:
    Company Common Stock Fund, 10,685,710
     shares, cost $121,681; Fund C, 9,436,552
     shares, cost $132,223 -- Note 2.........  $  777,223    $  412,736      $       --  $       --  $  364,487  $    --   $    --
  Intermediate Treasury Bond Fund, The
   Northern Trust Company, cost $120,852.....     114,791            --         114,791          --          --       --        --
  Collective Stock Index Fund, The Northern
   Trust Company, cost $40,603...............      66,783            --              --      66,783          --       --        --
Investment contracts with insurance
 companies, at contract value................      37,892            --          37,892          --          --       --        --
Investments, at cost which approximates fair
 value:
  Loans to participants......................      24,528            --              --          --          --       --    24,528
  Cash and short-term securities.............       4,584            78             250         107          71    4,078        --
                                               ----------  ---------------   ----------  ----------  ----------  -------  ---------
    Total investments........................   1,025,801       412,814         152,933      66,890     364,558    4,078    24,528
Interest receivable..........................       2,334             5           2,306           1           4       18        --
Contributions receivable from employers,
 including amounts collected from
 employees...................................       7,149         2,268           1,758         868         919    1,336        --
                                               ----------  ---------------   ----------  ----------  ----------  -------  ---------
                                                1,035,284       415,087         156,997      67,759     365,481    5,432    24,528
Payables arising from securities purchased...          (5)           --              (2)         (3)         --       --        --
                                               ----------  ---------------   ----------  ----------  ----------  -------  ---------
Net assets available for plan benefits --
 Note 8......................................  $1,035,279    $  415,087      $  156,995  $   67,756  $  365,481  $ 5,432   $24,528
                                               ----------  ---------------   ----------  ----------  ----------  -------  ---------
                                               ----------  ---------------   ----------  ----------  ----------  -------  ---------
Number of units outstanding at end of year...                35,818,415      15,360,416   6,808,008  31,611,989  493,338
Unit Value -- Note 1.........................                    $11.38          $10.00       $9.77      $11.38   $10.08
</TABLE>
 
See Notes to Financial Statements which are an integral part of these financial
                                  statements.
 
                                       2
<PAGE>
                       PFIZER SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN
                  STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN NET ASSETS AVAILABLE
                               FOR PLAN BENEFITS
                          YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995
                             (THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                        NON-PARTICIPANT
                                                                         DIRECTED
                                                                        ----------
                                                                         COMPANY                  PARTICIPANT DIRECTED
                                                                          COMMON     ----------------------------------------------
                                                              TOTAL     STOCK FUND    FUND A   FUND B    FUND C   FUND D  LOAN FUND
                                                            ----------  ----------   --------  -------  --------  ------  ---------
<S>                                                         <C>         <C>          <C>       <C>      <C>       <C>     <C>
Net investment income
  Cash dividends:
    Pfizer Inc. common stock..............................  $   21,180   $ 10,919    $     --  $    --  $ 10,261  $   --   $    --
    Other marketable securities...........................       2,333         --          --    2,333        --      --        --
  Interest................................................      15,605         38      12,351       29        86     939     2,162
                                                            ----------  ----------   --------  -------  --------  ------  ---------
                                                                39,118     10,957      12,351    2,362    10,347     939     2,162
Investment management fees -- Note 4......................         (90)        --         (57)     (33)       --      --        --
                                                            ----------  ----------   --------  -------  --------  ------  ---------
                                                                39,028     10,957      12,294    2,329    10,347     939     2,162
                                                            ----------  ----------   --------  -------  --------  ------  ---------
Realized gains (losses) on investments, net -- Note 5
  Pfizer Inc. common stock................................      40,853     20,137          --       --    20,716      --        --
  Other securities........................................         379         --        (638)   1,017        --      --        --
                                                            ----------  ----------   --------  -------  --------  ------  ---------
                                                                41,232     20,137        (638)   1,017    20,716      --        --
                                                            ----------  ----------   --------  -------  --------  ------  ---------
Unrealized appreciation of investments, net -- Note 6.....     488,494    235,218       8,840   24,431   220,005      --        --
                                                            ----------  ----------   --------  -------  --------  ------  ---------
                                                               568,754    266,312      20,496   27,777   251,068     939     2,162
                                                            ----------  ----------   --------  -------  --------  ------  ---------
Contributions -- Note 7
  Employees...............................................     132,035         --      13,942   13,281    41,807  63,005        --
  Employers...............................................      32,068     32,068          --       --        --      --        --
Withdrawals -- Note 8.....................................    (126,875)   (51,631)    (20,772)  (8,374)  (42,046) (4,052)       --
Loan transaction transfers -- net.........................          --       (753)       (970)    (545)   (2,605)   (114)    5,017
Transfers at fair market value -- net.....................          --         --      15,806   11,572    21,559  (48,937)       --
                                                            ----------  ----------   --------  -------  --------  ------  ---------
                                                                37,228    (20,316)      8,006   15,934    18,715   9,872     5,017
                                                            ----------  ----------   --------  -------  --------  ------  ---------
Net increase..............................................     605,982    245,996      28,502   43,711   269,783  10,811     7,179
Net assets available for plan benefits -- Note 8:
  Beginning of year.......................................   1,035,279    415,087     156,995   67,756   365,481   5,432    24,528
                                                            ----------  ----------   --------  -------  --------  ------  ---------
  End of year.............................................  $1,641,261   $661,083    $185,497  $111,467 $635,264  $16,243  $31,707
                                                            ----------  ----------   --------  -------  --------  ------  ---------
                                                            ----------  ----------   --------  -------  --------  ------  ---------
</TABLE>
 
See Notes to Financial Statements which are an integral part of these financial
                                  statements.
 
                                       3
<PAGE>
                       PFIZER SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN
                  STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN NET ASSETS AVAILABLE
                               FOR PLAN BENEFITS
                          YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1994
                             (THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                    NON-PARTICIPANT
                                                     DIRECTED
                                                    ----------
                                                     COMPANY                   PARTICIPANT DIRECTED
                                                      COMMON     ------------------------------------------------
                                           TOTAL    STOCK FUND    FUND A   FUND B    FUND C    FUND D   LOAN FUND
                                          --------  ----------   --------  -------  --------  --------  ---------
<S>                                       <C>       <C>          <C>       <C>      <C>       <C>       <C>
Net investment income
  Cash dividends:
    Pfizer Inc. common
     stock..............................  $ 18,635   $  9,852    $     --  $    --  $  8,783  $     --   $    --
    Other marketable securities.........     1,699         --          --    1,699        --        --        --
Interest................................    12,759         35      11,628       24        38        28     1,006
                                          --------  ----------   --------  -------  --------  --------  ---------
                                            33,093      9,887      11,628    1,723     8,821        28     1,006
Investment management fees -- Note 4....       (39)        --         (24)     (15)       --        --        --
                                          --------  ----------   --------  -------  --------  --------  ---------
                                            33,054      9,887      11,604    1,708     8,821        28     1,006
                                          --------  ----------   --------  -------  --------  --------  ---------
Realized gains (losses) on investments,
 net -- Note 5
  Pfizer Inc. common stock..............    20,942     10,582          --       --    10,360        --        --
  Other securities......................      (343)        --        (350)       7        --        --        --
                                          --------  ----------   --------  -------  --------  --------  ---------
                                            20,599     10,582        (350)       7    10,360        --        --
                                          --------  ----------   --------  -------  --------  --------  ---------
Unrealized appreciation (depreciation)
 of investments, net -- Note 6..........    54,321     32,408      (6,015)    (838)   28,766        --        --
                                          --------  ----------   --------  -------  --------  --------  ---------
                                           107,974     52,877       5,239      877    47,947        28     1,006
                                          --------  ----------   --------  -------  --------  --------  ---------
Contributions -- Note 7
  Employees.............................    60,115         --      14,525   11,603    33,952        35        --
  Employers.............................    28,723     28,723          --       --        --        --        --
Withdrawals -- Note 8...................   (86,387)   (33,694)    (19,644)  (5,467)  (27,582)       --        --
Loan transaction transfers -- net.......        --     (1,733)     (2,015)    (678)   (4,225)       (4)    8,655
Transfers at fair market value -- net...        --         --       3,615    1,628   (10,616)    5,373        --
                                          --------  ----------   --------  -------  --------  --------  ---------
                                             2,451     (6,704)     (3,519)   7,086    (8,471)    5,404     8,655
                                          --------  ----------   --------  -------  --------  --------  ---------
Net increase............................   110,425     46,173       1,720    7,963    39,476     5,432     9,661
Net assets available for plan benefits
 -- Note 8:
  Beginning of year.....................   924,854    368,914     155,275   59,793   326,005        --    14,867
                                          --------  ----------   --------  -------  --------  --------  ---------
  End of year...........................  $1,035,279  $415,087   $156,995  $67,756  $365,481  $  5,432   $24,528
                                          --------  ----------   --------  -------  --------  --------  ---------
                                          --------  ----------   --------  -------  --------  --------  ---------
</TABLE>
 
See Notes to Financial Statements which are an integral part of these financial
                                  statements.
 
                                       4
<PAGE>
                       PFIZER SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN
                         NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                           DECEMBER 31, 1995 AND 1994
 
NOTE 1 -- SUMMARY PLAN DESCRIPTION
 
    GENERAL  --  The  Pfizer  Savings  and  Investment  Plan  (the  "Plan")  was
originally adopted by Pfizer Inc. (the "Company") in 1965 as the Pfizer  Savings
Plan  and has been amended  from time to time  since that date. Participation in
the Plan is open to  all eligible employees of  the Company and any  corporation
which, with the consent of the Company, adopts the Plan ("Associate Companies").
The Plan is subject to the provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Security
Act of 1974.
 
    Effective December 31, 1992, all new contributions, in excess of withdrawals
and  transfers, directed to Fund  A of the Plan  are invested in an intermediate
U.S. Treasury bond fund. In addition, as the investment contracts with insurance
companies in  Fund  A  mature,  the  contracts'  proceeds  are  invested  in  an
intermediate U.S. Treasury bond fund.
 
    Effective  as of January 1, 1995, the  Plan was amended to accept a rollover
contribution by a participant in certain instances (as defined in the Plan)  and
to value a deceased participant's account as of the valuation date subsequent to
the  receipt  of  the  distribution  election  rather  than  the  valuation date
preceeding the decedent's death.
 
    The following is a  general description of certain  provisions of the  Plan.
Refer to the Plan for a complete description.
 
    CONTRIBUTIONS  -- Each  participant may  make contributions  on an after-tax
basis or  on  a  before-tax  basis  (that  is,  choose  to  reduce  his  or  her
compensation  and have  the Company  contribute on  his or  her behalf),  or may
contribute on a basis combining the two. Before-tax contributions are subject to
certain restrictions for employees who  are considered highly compensated  under
the  Internal Revenue  Code of 1986,  as amended.  Contributions of up  to 2% of
compensation are matched 100%  by the Company  and the next  4% is matched  50%.
Employee contributions in excess of 6% are not matched.
 
    INVESTMENT OPTIONS -- Each participant in the Plan elects to have his or her
contribution  invested in any  one or any combination  of four investment funds.
These funds are described as follows:
 
        Fund A -- An  intermediate  U.S.  Treasury  bond  fund  and   investment
                  contracts  with insurance companies (see GENERAL caption above
                  for a description of Fund A investments effective December 31,
                  1992).
 
        Fund B -- An index fund of corporate common stocks.
 
        Fund C -- Common stock of the Company.
 
        Fund D -- U.S. Treasury and government  agency money market  investments
                  with  short  maturities of  less  than one  year  (fund became
                  available to participants in October 1994).
 
    At December 31, 1995  and 1994, respectively, there  were 13,033 and  11,788
employees  participating in the Plan, some of  whom had investments in more than
one employee investment fund.  On the basis of  allocations by the employees  of
their  contributions at  December 31,  1995 and  1994, respectively,  Fund A had
5,218 and 5,506 participating employees; Fund B, 4,802 and 4,242, Fund C, 10,828
and 9,299 and Fund D, 291 and 55.
 
    All Company matching contributions  are invested by the  Trustee in a  fifth
fund designated the "Company Common Stock Fund," which consists solely of common
stock of the Company. These contributions are non-participant directed.
 
                                       5
<PAGE>
                       PFIZER SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN
                   NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                           DECEMBER 31, 1995 AND 1994
 
NOTE 1 -- SUMMARY PLAN DESCRIPTION (CONTINUED)
    The  Trust Agreement provides that any portion of any of the five funds may,
pending its  permanent investment  or distribution,  be invested  in  short-term
investments.
 
    The  net assets used to calculate the unit values disclosed on the Statement
of Net Assets Available for Plan Benefits as of December 31, 1995 and 1994, have
been reduced by benefits payable (Note 8) as of that date.
 
    ELIGIBILITY AND VESTING -- Substantially  all the domestic employees of  the
Company, except those covered by a collective bargaining agreement, are eligible
to participate in the Plan beginning on the first January 1 following their date
of  employment,  or  the beginning  of  any month  thereafter.  Participants are
immediately vested in the full value of their accounts (i.e., participants'  and
employers'  contributions) in Funds A,  B, C and D  and the Company Common Stock
Fund.
 
    PAYMENT OF BENEFITS -- Upon separation from service, retirement,  disability
or  death,  a  participant  has  the  option to  elect  to  receive  a  lump sum
distribution immediately or at any time up to age 65, subject to the  provisions
of the Plan.
 
    WITHDRAWALS  --  A  participant in  the  Plan  may make  a  full  or partial
withdrawal of funds subject to the provisions of the Plan.
 
    LOANS --  Since July  1, 1993,  Plan participants  are permitted  to  borrow
against  their vested  balance. The minimum  amount a participant  may borrow is
$1,000 and the maximum amount is the lesser of 50% of the vested account balance
reduced by  any current  outstanding  loan balance  or  $50,000 reduced  by  the
highest outstanding loan balance in the preceding 12 months.
 
    Under  the terms of the Plan, loans must be repaid within five years, unless
the funds are used to purchase a primary residence. Primary residence loans must
be repaid over 10 or 15 years at the participant's option. The interest rate  on
all  loans is based on the prime rate  plus 1%. Interest paid by the participant
is credited to the participant's account.
 
    TERMINATION -- The Company  expects to continue  the Plan indefinitely,  but
necessarily  reserves the right to amend, suspend  or discontinue it in whole or
in part  at  any time  by  action of  the  Company's Board  of  Directors.  Upon
termination  of the  Plan, each member  affected thereby shall  receive the full
value of his  or her share  in Funds  A, B, C,  D and  his or her  share in  the
Company Common Stock Fund as though he or she had retired as of the date of such
termination.  No part of the assets in the investment funds established pursuant
to the Plan will at any time revert to the Company.
 
NOTE 2 -- SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
    BASIS OF ACCOUNTING -- The financial statements of the Plan are prepared  on
the accrual basis of accounting. For treatment of benefits payable refer to Note
8.
 
    INVESTMENT  VALUATION -- Pfizer  Inc. common stock is  valued at the closing
market price on the last business day of the year. The investments in the  index
fund  of corporate  common stocks and  intermediate U.S. Treasury  bond fund are
recorded at fair  value based  on the closing  market prices  of the  underlying
investments  of the  respective fund as  of the  last business day  of the year.
Loans to participants and  cash and short-term securities  are recorded at  cost
which  approximates  fair  value  and the  investment  contracts  with insurance
companies are recorded at contract value.
 
                                       6
<PAGE>
                       PFIZER SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN
                   NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                           DECEMBER 31, 1995 AND 1994
 
NOTE 2 -- SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
    SECURITY TRANSACTIONS -- Purchases and sales of securities are reflected  on
a  trade-date basis. Realized gains and losses on sales of investments represent
the difference between the net proceeds received and the cost of the investments
(average cost if less than the entire investment is sold).
 
    UNREALIZED  APPRECIATION   (DEPRECIATION)  OF   INVESTMENTS  --   Unrealized
appreciation   (depreciation)  of  investments  for   the  year  represents  the
difference between the cost of the investments  and their fair value at the  end
of   the  year.  Additionally,  it  reflects  the  reversal  of  the  unrealized
appreciation (depreciation) as of the end of the prior year.
 
    DIVIDEND RECOGNITION -- Dividend income is recorded on the ex-dividend date.
Income from other investments is recorded as earned.
 
    PFIZER INC. COMMON STOCK -- In June 1995, the Company effected a two-for-one
stock split in the form of a 100% stock dividend. The number of shares of Pfizer
Inc. common stock held by the Plan as of December 31, 1994 (Company Common Stock
Fund and Fund C) have been restated to reflect the two-for-one stock split.
 
NOTE 3 -- INCOME TAXES
    The Internal Revenue Service  has determined and  informed the Company  that
the  Plan and related trust as of May  26, 1994 were designed in accordance with
the applicable sections of the Internal Revenue Code. The Plan has been  amended
since  receiving the determination letter. The Plan administrator and the Plan's
legal and tax counsel believe that the  Plan is designed and is currently  being
operated  in  compliance with  all  the applicable  requirements.  Therefore, no
provision has been made for Federal income taxes.
 
    All contributions  made to  the Plan  by the  Company, including  before-tax
contributions  made on the employee's behalf by the Company and the appreciation
on all funds in  the employee's account  are not taxable  to the employee  under
Federal income tax law while these amounts remain in the Plan.
 
NOTE 4 -- ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS
    Except  for certain member transfer costs and the investment management fees
(Fund A and Fund B), all costs and expenses of administering the Plan were borne
by the Company.
 
NOTE 5 -- REALIZED GAINS (LOSSES) ON INVESTMENTS
    The aggregate net proceeds and carrying value used in the calculation of the
realized gains (losses) on investments are as follows:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                         REALIZED GAINS
                                                                NET PROCEEDS    COST        (LOSSES)
                                                                ------------  ---------  --------------
                                                                        (THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)
<S>                                                             <C>           <C>        <C>
Pfizer Inc. Common Stock:
  1995........................................................   $   58,802   $  17,949    $   40,853
  1994........................................................       32,958      12,016        20,942
Other Securities:
  1995........................................................       31,833      31,454           379
  1994........................................................       19,928      20,271          (343)
</TABLE>
 
    Net share  proceeds  from  the  disposal of  Pfizer  Inc.  common  stock  of
$19,664,000  in 1995  and $15,172,000 in  1994 related to  shares distributed in
kind to participants who withdrew from the Plan on retirement or termination.
 
                                       7
<PAGE>
                       PFIZER SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN
                   NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                           DECEMBER 31, 1995 AND 1994
 
NOTE 6 -- UNREALIZED APPRECIATION (DEPRECIATION) OF INVESTMENTS
    The change in the  amount of unrealized  appreciation (depreciation) was  as
follows:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                          AGGREGATE UNREALIZED
                                                       ---------------------------
                                                       DECEMBER 31,   DECEMBER 31,
                                                           1995           1994      CHANGE DURING 1995
                                                       -------------  ------------  -------------------
                                                                    (THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)
 
<S>                                                    <C>            <C>           <C>
Company Common Stock Fund............................  $     526,273   $  291,055      $     235,218
Fund A...............................................          2,779       (6,061)             8,840
Fund B...............................................         50,611       26,180             24,431
Fund C...............................................        452,269      232,264            220,005
                                                       -------------  ------------        ----------
                                                       $   1,031,932   $  543,438      $     488,494
                                                       -------------  ------------        ----------
                                                       -------------  ------------        ----------
</TABLE>
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                           AGGREGATE UNREALIZED
                                                        --------------------------
                                                        DECEMBER 31,  DECEMBER 31,
                                                            1994          1993      CHANGE DURING 1994
                                                        ------------  ------------  -------------------
                                                                    (THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)
 
<S>                                                     <C>           <C>           <C>
Company Common Stock Fund.............................   $  291,055    $  258,647       $    32,408
Fund A................................................       (6,061)          (46)           (6,015)
Fund B................................................       26,180        27,018              (838)
Fund C................................................      232,264       203,498            28,766
                                                        ------------  ------------         --------
                                                         $  543,438    $  489,117       $    54,321
                                                        ------------  ------------         --------
                                                        ------------  ------------         --------
</TABLE>
 
NOTE 7 -- CONTRIBUTIONS
    The  participating employees  and their employers  contributed the following
amounts to the Plan:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                  1995
                                                                 ---------------------------------------
                                                                 PARTICIPATING PARTICIPATING
                                                                  EMPLOYEES     EMPLOYERS       TOTAL
                                                                 ------------  ------------  -----------
                                                                         (THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)
 
<S>                                                              <C>           <C>           <C>
Pfizer Inc.....................................................   $  117,093    $   26,104   $   143,197
Associate Companies............................................       14,942         5,964        20,906
                                                                 ------------  ------------  -----------
                                                                  $  132,035    $   32,068   $   164,103
                                                                 ------------  ------------  -----------
                                                                 ------------  ------------  -----------
</TABLE>
 
    In 1995, contributions  by participating employees  of Pfizer Inc.  includes
rollover   contributions  of  $62,260,000  from  the  employees  of  the  former
SmithKline Beecham animal health  business that was acquired  by the Company  in
January 1995.
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                  1994
                                                                  -------------------------------------
                                                                  PARTICIPATING PARTICIPATING
                                                                   EMPLOYEES     EMPLOYERS      TOTAL
                                                                  ------------  ------------  ---------
                                                                         (THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)
 
<S>                                                               <C>           <C>           <C>
Pfizer Inc......................................................   $   46,405    $   22,914   $  69,319
Associate Companies.............................................       13,710         5,809      19,519
                                                                  ------------  ------------  ---------
                                                                   $   60,115    $   28,723   $  88,838
                                                                  ------------  ------------  ---------
                                                                  ------------  ------------  ---------
</TABLE>
 
                                       8
<PAGE>
                       PFIZER SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN
                   NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
                           DECEMBER 31, 1995 AND 1994
 
NOTE 8 -- WITHDRAWALS AND RECONCILIATION WITH FORM 5500
    For  financial statement purposes, participant withdrawals and distributions
are recorded when  paid rather  than when  processed and  approved for  payment.
Therefore,  the net assets available  for Plan benefits as  of December 31, 1995
and 1994  do not  reflect a  reduction  for the  following benefits  payable  to
participants who had requested withdrawals as of December 31, but which were not
distributed until the subsequent year:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                     1995       1994
                                                                                   ---------  ---------
                                                                                      (THOUSANDS OF
                                                                                         DOLLARS)
 
<S>                                                                                <C>        <C>
Company Common Stock Fund........................................................  $   5,471  $   7,588
Fund A...........................................................................        871      3,253
Fund B...........................................................................        933      1,250
Fund C...........................................................................      3,735      5,856
Fund D...........................................................................        508        461
                                                                                   ---------  ---------
                                                                                   $  11,518  $  18,408
                                                                                   ---------  ---------
                                                                                   ---------  ---------
</TABLE>
 
    For  the  purposes  of Form  5500,  such withdrawals  and  distributions are
recorded when processed and approved for payment. Therefore, the above  benefits
payable  to participants have been reported as  benefit expense on Form 5500 for
those years.
 
                                       9
<PAGE>
                       PFIZER SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN
          ITEM 27A -- SCHEDULE OF ASSETS HELD FOR INVESTMENT PURPOSES
                               DECEMBER 31, 1995
                             (THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
FUND A:                                                                NUMBER OF     COST OR
 INVESTMENT CONTRACTS WITH INSURANCE         INTEREST    MATURITY      SHARES OR    CONTRACT     FAIR
 COMPANIES                                     RATE        DATE          UNITS        VALUE      VALUE
- -------------------------------------------  ---------  -----------  -------------  ---------  ---------
<S>                                          <C>        <C>          <C>            <C>        <C>
Continental Assurance Co. Group Annuity
 Contract #12682...........................       8.46%     6/3/96              --  $  27,404  $  27,404
Provident National Assurance Co. Group
 Annuity Contract #027-65041...............       8.43%     6/3/96              --     13,685     13,685
                                                                                    ---------  ---------
    Total Investment Contracts with
     Insurance Companies...................                                            41,089     41,089
 
<CAPTION>
 
INTERMEDIATE TREASURY BOND FUND
- -------------------------------------------
<S>                                          <C>        <C>          <C>            <C>        <C>
The Northern Trust Company, Intermediate
 Treasury Bond Fund........................         --          --     132,850,000    137,223    140,002
<CAPTION>
 
CASH AND SHORT-TERM SECURITIES
- -------------------------------------------
<S>                                          <C>        <C>          <C>            <C>        <C>
The Northern Trust Company, Short-Term
 Investment Fund...........................    Various     Various          93,734         94         94
                                                                                    ---------  ---------
    Total of Fund A........................                                         $ 178,406  $ 181,185
                                                                                    ---------  ---------
                                                                                    ---------  ---------
 
FUND B:
The Northern Trust Company, Collective
 Stock Index Fund..........................         --          --       2,076,125  $  59,403  $ 110,014
                                                                                    ---------  ---------
                                                                                    ---------  ---------
 
FUND C:
Pfizer Inc. Common Stock...................         --          --      10,048,630  $ 180,795  $ 633,064
<CAPTION>
 
CASH AND SHORT-TERM SECURITIES
- -------------------------------------------
<S>                                          <C>        <C>          <C>            <C>        <C>
The Northern Trust Company, Short-Term
 Investment Fund...........................    Various     Various          68,536         69         69
                                                                                    ---------  ---------
      Total of Fund C......................                                         $ 180,864  $ 633,133
                                                                                    ---------  ---------
                                                                                    ---------  ---------
<CAPTION>
 
FUND D:
<S>                                          <C>        <C>          <C>            <C>        <C>
The Northern Trust Company, Government
 Short-Term Investment Fund................    Various     Various      15,803,507  $  15,803  $  15,803
                                                                                    ---------  ---------
                                                                                    ---------  ---------
 
COMPANY COMMON STOCK FUND:
 
Pfizer Inc. Common Stock...................         --          --      10,451,382  $ 132,164  $ 658,437
 
CASH AND SHORT-TERM SECURITIES
- -------------------------------------------
The Northern Trust Company, Short-Term
 Investment Fund...........................    Various     Various          74,470         90         90
                                                                                    ---------  ---------
    Total of Company Stock Fund............                                         $ 132,254  $ 658,527
                                                                                    ---------  ---------
                                                                                    ---------  ---------
<CAPTION>
 
LOAN FUND:
<S>                                          <C>        <C>          <C>            <C>        <C>
Loans to participants......................    Various     Various              --  $  31,707  $  31,707
                                                                                    ---------  ---------
                                                                                    ---------  ---------
</TABLE>
 
                                       10
<PAGE>
                       PFIZER SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN
                ITEM 27D -- SCHEDULE OF REPORTABLE TRANSACTIONS
 
                          YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995
                             (THOUSANDS OF DOLLARS)
 
FUND C AND COMPANY COMMON STOCK FUND:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                              NUMBER OF     NUMBER OF
SECURITIES PURCHASED                         TRANSACTIONS    SHARES       COST
- -------------------------------------------  ------------   ---------   --------
<S>                                          <C>            <C>         <C>
Pfizer Inc. common stock...................         29      1,668,909** $ 77,001
                                             ------------   ---------   --------
                                             ------------   ---------   --------
</TABLE>
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                         FAIR VALUE
SECURITIES            NUMBER OF     NUMBER OF            OF DISPOSED   REALIZED
 DISPOSED*           TRANSACTIONS    SHARES      COST      SHARES       GAINS
- -------------------  ------------   ---------   -------  -----------   --------
<S>                  <C>            <C>         <C>      <C>           <C>
Pfizer Inc. common
 stock.............        255      1,291,159   $17,949**   $58,802    $ 40,853
                         -----      ---------   -------  -----------   --------
                         -----      ---------   -------  -----------   --------
</TABLE>
 
- ------------------------
 *  Dispositions  represent sales  of stock  and shares  distributed in  kind to
    members who withdrew from the Plan on retirement or termination.
 
**  In June 1995, Pfizer Inc. effected a two-for-one stock split in the form  of
    a  100% stock  dividend. The  number of shares  of Pfizer  Inc. common stock
    purchased and disposed of by the Plan  prior to the date of the stock  split
    have been restated to reflect the split.
 
                                       11
<PAGE>
                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT
 
To the Savings and Investment Plan Committee
 Pfizer Savings and Investment Plan:
 
    We have audited the accompanying statements of net assets available for plan
benefits of the Pfizer Savings and Investment Plan (the Plan) as of December 31,
1995  and 1994 and the related statements of changes in net assets available for
plan benefits  for the  years then  ended. These  financial statements  are  the
responsibility  of the  Plan's management. Our  responsibility is  to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.
 
    We conducted  our  audits in  accordance  with generally  accepted  auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence  supporting
the  amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the  accounting  principles used  and  significant estimates  made  by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
    In our opinion, the financial  statements referred to above present  fairly,
in all material respects, the net assets available for plan benefits of the Plan
as  of December 31,  1995 and 1994 and  the changes in  net assets available for
plan benefits for the  years then ended, in  conformity with generally  accepted
accounting principles.
 
    Our audits were performed for the purpose of forming an opinion on the basic
financial  statements taken as a whole. The supplemental schedules of (1) assets
held for investment purposes and (2) reportable transactions, as of and for  the
year  ended  December  31, 1995  are  presented  for the  purpose  of additional
analysis and are not a required part  of the basic financial statements but  are
supplementary  information  required  by  the Department  of  Labor's  Rules and
Regulations for Reporting  and Disclosure under  the Employee Retirement  Income
Security  Act of  1974. The  Fund Information  in the  statements of  net assets
available for  plan  benefits  and  the statements  of  changes  in  net  assets
available  for plan  benefits is presented  for purposes  of additional analysis
rather than to present the net assets available for plan benefits and changes in
net assets available for plan benefits of each fund. The supplemental  schedules
and  Fund Information have been subjected  to the auditing procedures applied in
the audits of  the basic financial  statements and, in  our opinion, are  fairly
stated  in all material  respects in relation to  the basic financial statements
taken as a whole.
 
                                                 /s/ KPMG Peat Marwick LLP
 
                                          --------------------------------------
                                                   KPMG PEAT MARWICK LLP
 
New York, New York
March 15, 1996
 
                                       12
<PAGE>
                                   SIGNATURES
 
    THE  PLAN.  Pursuant to  the requirements of the  Securities Exchange Act of
1934, the members of the Savings and Investment Plan Committee have duly  caused
this  annual report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly
authorized.
 
                                          PFIZER SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN
 
                                          By:        /s/ David L. Shedlarz
 
                                             -----------------------------------
                                                      David L. Shedlarz
                                                VICE PRESIDENT -- FINANCE AND
                                                   CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
                                                CHAIR, SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT
                                                       PLAN COMMITTEE
 
Date: March 28, 1996
 
                                       13
<PAGE>
                                                                      EXHIBIT 23
 
                        CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
 
To the Savings and Investment Plan Committee
 Pfizer Savings and Investment Plan:
 
    We  consent to the use of our report included herein and incorporated herein
by reference in the  Registration Statement on Form  S-8 dated January 24,  1991
(File  No.  33-38708)  of our  report  dated  March 15,  1996,  relating  to the
statements of net assets available for  plan benefits of the Pfizer Savings  and
Investment  Plan as of December 31, 1995 and 1994, and the related statements of
changes in net  assets available  for plan benefits  for the  years then  ended,
which  report appears in the December 31, 1995 annual report on Form 11-K of the
Pfizer Savings and Investment Plan.
 
                                                 /s/ KPMG Peat Marwick LLP
 
                                          --------------------------------------
                                                   KPMG PEAT MARWICK LLP
New York, New York
March 28, 1996
 
                                       14
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-13.(C)
<SEQUENCE>6
<DESCRIPTION>ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 11-K
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
                            ------------------------
 
                                   FORM 11-K
 
             FOR ANNUAL REPORTS OF EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE, SAVINGS
                 AND SIMILAR PLANS PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(d) OF
                      THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
(MARK ONE)
/X/  ANNUAL  REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(d)  OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
     1934 (FEE REQUIRED)
 
                  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995
 
                                       OR
 
/ /  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE  ACT
     OF 1934 (NO FEE REQUIRED)
 
                   For the transition period from ... to ...
                         Commission file number 1-3619
 
A.  FULL  TITLE OF THE PLAN AND THE ADDRESS  OF THE PLAN, IF DIFFERENT FROM THAT
    OF THE ISSUER NAMED BELOW:
 
                       PFIZER SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN
                     FOR EMPLOYEES RESIDENT IN PUERTO RICO
 
B.  NAME OF ISSUER OF THE SECURITIES HELD  PURSUANT TO THE PLAN AND THE  ADDRESS
    OF ITS PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICES:
 
                                  PFIZER INC.
                              235 EAST 42ND STREET
                            NEW YORK, NEW YORK 10017
 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<PAGE>
                       PFIZER SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN
                     FOR EMPLOYEES RESIDENT IN PUERTO RICO
 
                            STATEMENT OF NET ASSETS
                          AVAILABLE FOR PLAN BENEFITS
 
                               DECEMBER 31, 1995
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                               NON-PARTICIPANT
                                                                  DIRECTED
                                                               --------------
                                                                PFIZER INC.              PARTICIPANT DIRECTED
                                                                COMMON STOCK   -----------------------------------------
                                                   TOTAL            FUND          FUND A        FUND B        FUND C
                                               --------------  --------------  -------------  -----------  -------------
<S>                                            <C>             <C>             <C>            <C>          <C>
                   ASSETS
- ---------------------------------------------
 
Investments, at fair value:
  Pfizer Inc. common stock:
    Pfizer Inc. Common Stock Fund, 87,517
     shares, cost $2,596,932; Fund C, 71,818
     shares; cost $2,271,405.................  $   10,037,703   $  5,513,160   $          --  $        --  $   4,524,543
  Other marketable securities: Fund A, cost
   $1,806,318; Fund B, cost $278,353.........       2,292,532             --       1,876,876      415,656             --
Interest-bearing deposits, at cost which
 approximates fair value.....................         210,494         57,834         115,476       13,387         23,797
                                               --------------  --------------  -------------  -----------  -------------
      Total investments......................      12,540,729      5,570,994       1,992,352      429,043      4,548,340
 
Interest receivable..........................          32,630            155          32,379           34             62
 
Contributions receivable:
  Employees..................................         300,316             --         103,983       13,772        182,561
  Employers..................................         157,502        157,502              --           --             --
                                               --------------  --------------  -------------  -----------  -------------
    Net assets available for plan benefits --
     Note 8..................................  $   13,031,177   $  5,728,651   $   2,128,714  $   442,849  $   4,730,963
                                               --------------  --------------  -------------  -----------  -------------
                                               --------------  --------------  -------------  -----------  -------------
Number of units outstanding at end of year...                      1,461,391       1,438,320      231,858      1,238,472
 
Unit value...................................                          $3.92           $1.48        $1.91          $3.82
</TABLE>
 
See Notes to Financial Statements which are an integral part of these financial
                                  statements.
 
                                       1
<PAGE>
                       PFIZER SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN
                     FOR EMPLOYEES RESIDENT IN PUERTO RICO
 
                            STATEMENT OF NET ASSETS
                          AVAILABLE FOR PLAN BENEFITS
 
                               DECEMBER 31, 1994
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                               NON-PARTICIPANT
                                                                  DIRECTED
                                                               --------------
                                                                PFIZER INC.              PARTICIPANT DIRECTED
                                                                COMMON STOCK   -----------------------------------------
                                                    TOTAL           FUND          FUND A        FUND B        FUND C
                                                -------------  --------------  -------------  -----------  -------------
<S>                                             <C>            <C>             <C>            <C>          <C>
                    ASSETS
- ----------------------------------------------
 
Investments, at fair value:
  Pfizer Inc. common stock:
    Pfizer Inc. Common Stock Fund, 76,414
     shares, cost $2,059,026; Fund C, 67,854
     shares, cost $2,056,665..................  $   5,572,351   $  2,951,523   $          --  $        --  $   2,620,828
  Other marketable securities: Fund A, cost
   $1,428,837; Fund B, cost $230,455..........      1,634,171             --       1,369,619      264,552             --
Interest-bearing deposits, at cost which
 approximates fair value......................        159,799         47,863         107,407        4,529             --
                                                -------------  --------------  -------------  -----------  -------------
      Total investments.......................      7,366,321      2,999,386       1,477,026      269,081      2,620,828
 
Interest receivable...........................         28,067            212          27,721           16            118
 
Contributions receivable:
  Employees...................................        240,606             --          91,543       12,747        136,316
  Employers...................................        131,149        131,149              --           --             --
                                                -------------  --------------  -------------  -----------  -------------
  Net assets available for plan benefits --
   Note 8.....................................  $   7,766,143   $  3,130,747   $   1,596,290  $   281,844  $   2,757,262
                                                -------------  --------------  -------------  -----------  -------------
                                                -------------  --------------  -------------  -----------  -------------
 
Number of units outstanding at end of year....                     1,297,807       1,233,674      199,889      1,174,996
 
Unit value....................................                         $2.41           $1.29        $1.41          $2.35
</TABLE>
 
See Notes to Financial Statements which are an integral part of these financial
                                  statements.
 
                                       2
<PAGE>
                       PFIZER SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN
                     FOR EMPLOYEES RESIDENT IN PUERTO RICO
 
                       STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN NET ASSETS
                          AVAILABLE FOR PLAN BENEFITS
 
                          YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                               NON-PARTICIPANT
                                                                  DIRECTED
                                                               --------------
                                                                PFIZER INC.              PARTICIPANT DIRECTED
                                                                COMMON STOCK   -----------------------------------------
                                                   TOTAL            FUND          FUND A        FUND B        FUND C
                                               --------------  --------------  -------------  -----------  -------------
<S>                                            <C>             <C>             <C>            <C>          <C>
Net investment income:
  Cash Dividends:
    Pfizer Inc. common stock.................  $      159,945   $     86,696   $          --  $        --  $      73,249
    Other marketable securities..............           4,898             --              --        4,898             --
  Interest...................................         129,556          3,825         119,267        4,196          2,268
                                               --------------  --------------  -------------  -----------  -------------
                                                      294,399         90,521         119,267        9,094         75,517
 
Investment management fees -- Note 4.........          (5,129)            --              --       (5,129)            --
                                               --------------  --------------  -------------  -----------  -------------
                                                      289,270         90,521         119,267        3,965         75,517
 
Realized gain on investments, net -- Note 5:
  Pfizer Inc. common stock...................          60,220         29,373              --           --         30,847
  Other marketable securities................           5,614             --             156        5,458             --
                                               --------------  --------------  -------------  -----------  -------------
                                                       65,834         29,373             156        5,458         30,847
                                               --------------  --------------  -------------  -----------  -------------
 
Unrealized appreciation of investments, net
 -- Note 6...................................       3,945,688      2,023,731         129,776      103,206      1,688,975
                                               --------------  --------------  -------------  -----------  -------------
                                                    4,300,792      2,143,625         249,199      112,629      1,795,339
                                               --------------  --------------  -------------  -----------  -------------
Contributions -- Note 7:
  Employees..................................       2,340,054             --         846,905      136,407      1,356,742
  Employers..................................       1,231,787      1,231,787              --           --             --
Withdrawals -- Note 8........................      (2,607,599)      (788,809)       (526,514)     (77,333)    (1,214,943)
Transfers between funds -- net...............              --         11,301         (37,166)     (10,698)        36,563
                                               --------------  --------------  -------------  -----------  -------------
                                                      964,242        454,279         283,225       48,376        178,362
                                               --------------  --------------  -------------  -----------  -------------
Net increase.................................       5,265,034      2,597,904         532,424      161,005      1,973,701
Net assets available for plan benefits --
 Note 8:
  Beginning of year..........................       7,766,143      3,130,747       1,596,290      281,844      2,757,262
                                               --------------  --------------  -------------  -----------  -------------
  End of year................................  $   13,031,177   $  5,728,651   $   2,128,714  $   442,849  $   4,730,963
                                               --------------  --------------  -------------  -----------  -------------
                                               --------------  --------------  -------------  -----------  -------------
</TABLE>
 
See Notes to Financial Statements which are an integral part of these financial
                                  statements.
 
                                       3
<PAGE>
                       PFIZER SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN
                     FOR EMPLOYEES RESIDENT IN PUERTO RICO
 
                       STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN NET ASSETS
                          AVAILABLE FOR PLAN BENEFITS
 
                          YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1994
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                               NON-PARTICIPANT
                                                                  DIRECTED
                                                               --------------
                                                                PFIZER INC.              PARTICIPANT DIRECTED
                                                                COMMON STOCK   -----------------------------------------
                                                   TOTAL            FUND          FUND A        FUND B        FUND C
                                               --------------  --------------  -------------  -----------  -------------
<S>                                            <C>             <C>             <C>            <C>          <C>
Net investment income:
  Cash Dividends:
    Pfizer Inc. common stock.................  $      126,512   $     66,877   $          --  $        --  $      59,635
    Other marketable securities..............           6,102             --              --        6,102             --
  Interest...................................          84,462          1,803          80,710          295          1,654
                                               --------------  --------------  -------------  -----------  -------------
                                                      217,076         68,680          80,710        6,397         61,289
 
Investment management fees -- Note 4.........          (1,026)            --              --       (1,026)            --
                                               --------------  --------------  -------------  -----------  -------------
                                                      216,050         68,680          80,710        5,371         61,289
Realized gains on other marketable
 securities, net -- Note 5...................           1,356             --              --        1,356             --
Unrealized appreciation (depreciation) of
 investments, net -- Note 6..................         576,161        350,942         (81,819)     (10,308)       317,346
                                               --------------  --------------  -------------  -----------  -------------
                                                      793,567        419,622          (1,109)      (3,581)       378,635
                                               --------------  --------------  -------------  -----------  -------------
Contributions -- Note 7:
  Employees..................................       2,068,551             --         789,189      130,285      1,149,077
  Employers..................................       1,093,036      1,093,036              --           --             --
Withdrawals -- Note 8........................      (1,998,601)      (716,082)       (399,980)     (89,122)      (793,417)
Transfers between funds -- net...............              --            765          37,973       (1,059)       (37,679)
                                               --------------  --------------  -------------  -----------  -------------
                                                    1,162,986        377,719         427,182       40,104        317,981
                                               --------------  --------------  -------------  -----------  -------------
Net increase.................................       1,956,553        797,341         426,073       36,523        696,616
Net assets available for plan benefits --
 Note 8:
  Beginning of year..........................       5,809,590      2,333,406       1,170,217      245,321      2,060,646
                                               --------------  --------------  -------------  -----------  -------------
  End of year................................  $    7,766,143   $  3,130,747   $   1,596,290  $   281,844  $   2,757,262
                                               --------------  --------------  -------------  -----------  -------------
                                               --------------  --------------  -------------  -----------  -------------
</TABLE>
 
See Notes to Financial Statements which are an integral part of these financial
                                  statements.
 
                                       4
<PAGE>
                     PFIZER SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN FOR
                       EMPLOYEES RESIDENT IN PUERTO RICO
                         NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                           DECEMBER 31, 1995 AND 1994
 
NOTE 1 -- SUMMARY PLAN DESCRIPTION
 
    GENERAL  -- The Pfizer Savings and Investment Plan for Employees Resident in
Puerto Rico  (the "Plan")  is  a defined  contribution  savings plan  which  was
adopted  on February 1, 1990. Participation in  the Plan is open to all eligible
employees of  the  Puerto  Rico  branches of  Pfizer  Pharmaceuticals,  Inc.,  a
subsidiary  of  Pfizer Inc.,  and Pfizer  Corporation, an  indirect wholly-owned
subsidiary of Pfizer Inc., (individually and collectively, the "Companies"). The
Plan is subject to the provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act
of 1974.
 
    The following is a  general description of certain  provisions of the  Plan.
Refer to the Plan for a complete description of the Plan.
 
    CONTRIBUTIONS  -- Each  participant may  make contributions  on an after-tax
basis or  on  a  before-tax  basis  (that  is,  choose  to  reduce  his  or  her
compensation  and have the  Companies contribute on  his or her  behalf), or may
contribute on a basis combining the two. Before-tax contributions are subject to
certain restrictions for employees who  are considered highly compensated  under
Section  165(e)  of  the  Puerto  Rico  Income  Tax  Act  of  1954,  as amended.
Contributions of up to 2% of compensation are matched 100% by the Companies  and
the  next 4%  is matched  50%. Employee  contributions in  excess of  6% are not
matched.
 
    INVESTMENT OPTIONS -- Each participant in the Plan elects to have his or her
contributions invested in  any one or  any combination of  the three  investment
funds. These funds are described below:
 
        Fund A -- Fixed income
 
        Fund B -- An index fund of corporate common stocks
 
        Fund C -- Common stock of Pfizer Inc.
 
    At  December  31,  1995  and  1994,  there  were  1,015  and  970 employees,
respectively, participating in the  Plan, some of whom  had investments in  more
than  one employee investment fund. On the basis of allocations by the employees
of their contributions at December 31,  1995 and 1994, respectively, Fund A  had
566  and 518 participating  employees, Fund B, 160  and 152 and  Fund C, 763 and
678.
 
    All matching contributions  are invested  by the  Trustee in  a fourth  fund
designated  the "Pfizer Inc. Common Stock Fund," which consists solely of common
stock of Pfizer Inc. These contributions are non-participant directed.
 
    The Plan's trust  agreement provides that  any portion of  any of the  funds
may, pending its permanent investment or distribution, be invested in short-term
investments.
 
    ELIGIBILITY AND VESTING -- Substantially all the employees of the Companies,
who  are  resident in  Puerto  Rico, are  eligible  to participate  in  the Plan
beginning on the  first January  1 following their  date of  employment, or  the
beginning  of any  month or payroll  period thereafter. A  member is immediately
vested in the full value of his or her accounts (i.e., participant and  employer
contributions) in Funds A, B and C and the Pfizer Inc. Common Stock Fund.
 
    PAYMENT  OF BENEFITS -- Upon separation from service, retirement, disability
or death, a participant may elect to  receive either a lump-sum amount equal  to
the  value of the  participant's account, or annual  installments subject to the
provisions of  the Plan.  For termination  of service  due to  other reasons,  a
participant  may  receive  the  value  of  his  or  her  account  as  a lump-sum
distribution.
 
                                       5
<PAGE>
                     PFIZER SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN FOR
                       EMPLOYEES RESIDENT IN PUERTO RICO
                         NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                           DECEMBER 31, 1995 AND 1994
 
NOTE 1 -- SUMMARY PLAN DESCRIPTION (CONTINUED)
    WITHDRAWALS  --  A  participant  in  the  Plan  may  make  full  or  partial
withdrawals of funds subject to the provisions of the Plan.
 
    TERMINATION  -- The Companies expect to  continue the Plan indefinitely, but
necessarily reserve the right to amend, suspend or discontinue it in whole or in
part, at  any  time, by  action  of the  Companies'  Boards of  Directors.  Upon
termination  of the  Plan, each member  affected thereby shall  receive the full
value of his or her share in Fund A, B and C and his or her share in the Company
Common Stock  Fund as  though he  or she  had retired  as of  the date  of  such
termination.  No part of the assets  in the investment fund established pursuant
to the Plan will at any time revert to the Companies.
 
NOTE 2 -- SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
    BASIS OF ACCOUNTING -- The financial statements of the Plan are prepared  on
the accrual basis of accounting. For treatment of benefits payable refer to Note
8.
 
    INVESTMENT  VALUATION -- Pfizer  Inc. common stock is  valued at the closing
market price on the last business  day of the year. Other marketable  securities
are  valued at fair value  based on the closing market  price of the security on
the last business day of  the year except for investments  in the index fund  of
corporate  common stocks, which are recorded at  fair value based on the closing
market price of  the underlying  investments held  by the  fund as  of the  last
business  day of the year. Interest-bearing deposits are recorded at cost, which
approximates fair value.
 
    SECURITY TRANSACTIONS -- Purchases and sales of securities are reflected  on
a  trade-date basis. Realized gains and losses on sales of investments represent
the difference between the net proceeds received and the cost of the investments
(average cost if less than the entire investment is sold).
 
    UNREALIZED  APPRECIATION   (DEPRECIATION)  OF   INVESTMENTS  --   Unrealized
appreciation (depreciation) of investments represents the difference between the
cost of the investments and the fair value at the end of the year. Additionally,
it includes the reversal of the unrealized appreciation (depreciation) as of the
end of the prior year.
 
    DIVIDEND RECOGNITION -- Dividend income is recorded on the ex-dividend date.
Income from other investments is recorded as earned.
 
    PFIZER INC. COMMON STOCK -- In June 1995, Pfizer Inc. effected a two-for-one
stock split in the form of a 100% stock dividend. The number of shares of Pfizer
Inc.  common stock held by  the Plan as of December  31, 1994 (Pfizer Inc. Stock
Fund and Fund C) have been restated to reflect the stock split.
 
NOTE 3 -- INCOME TAXES
    No provision has been  made for Puerto  Rico income tax  in reliance upon  a
determination  letter issued  by the Puerto  Rico Department  of Treasury, which
states that the Plan meets the requirements of Section 165(a) of the Puerto Rico
Income Tax Act of 1954 and that the trust established thereunder is entitled  to
exemption.
 
    All  contributions made to  the Plan by  the Companies, including before-tax
contributions  made  on  the  employee's   behalf  by  the  Companies  and   the
appreciation  on all  funds in  the employee's  account are  not taxable  to the
employee under Puerto  Rico income  tax law while  these amounts  remain in  the
Plan.
 
                                       6
<PAGE>
                     PFIZER SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN FOR
                       EMPLOYEES RESIDENT IN PUERTO RICO
                         NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                           DECEMBER 31, 1995 AND 1994
 
NOTE 4 -- ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS
    Except  for  certain  investment management  fees  (Fund B),  all  costs and
expenses of administering the Plan were borne by the Companies.
 
NOTE 5 -- REALIZED GAINS ON INVESTMENTS
    The aggregate net proceeds and carrying value used in the calculation of the
realized gains on investments are as follows:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                             NET                    REALIZED
                                                          PROCEEDS       COST         GAINS
                                                         -----------  -----------  -----------
<S>                                                      <C>          <C>          <C>
Pfizer Inc. Common Stock:
  1995.................................................  $   183,217  $   122,997  $    60,220
Other Marketable Securities:
  1995.................................................       65,012       59,398        5,614
  1994.................................................      116,380      115,024        1,356
</TABLE>
 
NOTE 6 -- UNREALIZED APPRECIATION (DEPRECIATION) OF INVESTMENTS
 
    The change in the  amount of unrealized  appreciation (depreciation) was  as
follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                      AGGREGATE UNREALIZED
                                                  ----------------------------
                                                  DECEMBER 31,   DECEMBER 31,   CHANGE DURING
                                                      1995           1994            1995
                                                  -------------  -------------  --------------
<S>                                               <C>            <C>            <C>
Pfizer Inc. Common Stock Fund...................  $   2,916,228  $     892,497   $  2,023,731
Fund A..........................................         70,558        (59,218)       129,776
Fund B..........................................        137,303         34,097        103,206
Fund C..........................................      2,253,138        564,163      1,688,975
                                                  -------------  -------------  --------------
                                                  $   5,377,227  $   1,431,539   $  3,945,688
                                                  -------------  -------------  --------------
                                                  -------------  -------------  --------------
 
<CAPTION>
 
                                                      AGGREGATE UNREALIZED
                                                  ----------------------------
                                                  DECEMBER 31,   DECEMBER 31,   CHANGE DURING
                                                      1994           1993            1994
                                                  -------------  -------------  --------------
<S>                                               <C>            <C>            <C>
Pfizer Inc. Common Stock Fund...................  $     892,497  $     541,555   $    350,942
Fund A..........................................        (59,218)        22,601        (81,819)
Fund B..........................................         34,097         44,405        (10,308)
Fund C..........................................        564,163        246,817        317,346
                                                  -------------  -------------  --------------
                                                  $   1,431,539  $     855,378   $    576,161
                                                  -------------  -------------  --------------
                                                  -------------  -------------  --------------
</TABLE>
 
                                       7
<PAGE>
                     PFIZER SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN FOR
                       EMPLOYEES RESIDENT IN PUERTO RICO
                         NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                           DECEMBER 31, 1995 AND 1994
 
NOTE 7 -- CONTRIBUTIONS
 
    The  participating employees  and their employers  contributed the following
amounts to the Plan:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
1995                                                 EMPLOYEES      EMPLOYERS        TOTAL
                                                   -------------  -------------  -------------
<S>                                                <C>            <C>            <C>
Pfizer Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
 (Puerto Rico Branch)............................  $   1,947,066  $   1,024,059  $   2,971,125
Pfizer Corporation
 (Puerto Rico Branch)............................        392,988        207,728        600,716
                                                   -------------  -------------  -------------
                                                   $   2,340,054  $   1,231,787  $   3,571,841
                                                   -------------  -------------  -------------
                                                   -------------  -------------  -------------
 
<CAPTION>
 
1994
<S>                                                <C>            <C>            <C>
Pfizer Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
 (Puerto Rico Branch)............................  $   1,669,542  $     904,692  $   2,574,234
Pfizer Corporation
 (Puerto Rico Branch)............................        399,009        188,344        587,353
                                                   -------------  -------------  -------------
                                                   $   2,068,551  $   1,093,036  $   3,161,587
                                                   -------------  -------------  -------------
                                                   -------------  -------------  -------------
</TABLE>
 
NOTE 8 -- WITHDRAWALS AND RECONCILIATION WITH FORM 5500
    For financial statement purposes, participant withdrawals and  distributions
are  recorded when  paid rather  than when  processed and  approved for payment.
Therefore, the net assets  available for Plan benefits  as of December 31,  1995
and  1994  do not  reflect a  reduction  for the  following benefits  payable to
participants who had requested withdrawals as of December 31, but which were not
distributed until the subsequent year:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                         1995         1994
                                                                      -----------  -----------
<S>                                                                   <C>          <C>
Pfizer Inc. Common Stock Fund.......................................  $    62,751  $    68,397
Fund A..............................................................       27,423       30,505
Fund B..............................................................        3,822        4,929
Fund C..............................................................       89,894      104,993
                                                                      -----------  -----------
                                                                      $   183,890  $   208,824
                                                                      -----------  -----------
                                                                      -----------  -----------
</TABLE>
 
    For the  purposes  of Form  5500,  such withdrawals  and  distributions  are
recorded when processed and approved for payment. Therefore, benefits payable to
participants  who  have  requested  withdrawals have  been  reported  as benefit
expense within Form 5500 for those years.
 
                                       8
<PAGE>
                       PFIZER SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN
                     FOR EMPLOYEES RESIDENT IN PUERTO RICO
                            ITEM 27A -- SCHEDULE OF
                      ASSETS HELD FOR INVESTMENT PURPOSES
                               DECEMBER 31, 1995
FUND A:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                        INTEREST RATE    MATURITY       COST        FAIR VALUE
                                                        --------------  ----------  -------------  -------------
<S>                                                     <C>             <C>         <C>            <C>
OTHER MARKETABLE SECURITIES:
- ------------------------------------------------------
U.S. GOVERNMENT SECURITIES
- ------------------------------------------------------
U.S. Treasury Notes...................................          7.87%     08/15/01  $     111,035  $     123,974
U.S. Treasury Notes...................................          6.87      10/31/96         50,594         50,641
                                                                                    -------------  -------------
                                                                                          161,629        174,615
                                                                                    -------------  -------------
OTHER MARKETABLE SECURITIES
- ------------------------------------------------------
Federal Home Loan Bank................................          9.15      03/25/97         43,168         43,857
Federal Home Loan Bank Medium Term
 Note.................................................          6.97      11/20/97         75,000         77,156
Federal National Mortgage Association.................          8.80      07/25/97         49,406         52,617
Federal National Mortgage Association.................          7.85      09/10/98         25,969         26,516
Federal National Mortgage Association.................          5.74      02/12/98         71,050         70,041
Federal Farm Credit Bank Bond.........................          6.05      04/21/03         29,822         30,520
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation................          6.35      03/07/01         26,758         27,943
Federal National Mortgage Association Term Note.......          7.90      04/10/02         44,944         46,371
Federal National Mortgage Association Term Note.......          6.95      09/10/02         44,788         45,710
Federal National Mortgaage Association Term Note......          5.80      12/10/03          8,938          9,934
SLMA Medium Term Note.................................          5.50      07/08/02         57,213         59,325
Federal Home Loan Mortgage Term Note..................          7.03      10/19/96         60,355         61,472
Federal National Mortgage Association.................          7.05      10/10/96         25,813         25,297
                                                                                    -------------  -------------
                                                                                          563,224        576,759
                                                                                    -------------  -------------
CORPORATE DEBENTURES
- ------------------------------------------------------
World Bank Medium Term Note...........................          9.19      06/23/98         42,807         43,411
Tennessee Valley Authority............................     zero coupon    07/15/03         87,554         97,970
Tennessee Valley Authority............................          6.12      07/15/03         76,641         75,140
Tennessee Valley Authority............................          6.37      06/15/05        117,188        124,124
Citicorp..............................................          9.00      04/15/99         51,213         54,820
Dean Witter Discover Bond.............................          6.25      03/15/00         22,810         24,358
Exxon Bond............................................          7.87      08/15/97         57,520         57,063
Lehman Brothers Holdings, Inc. Note...................          8.37      04/01/97        100,409        102,969
Merrill Lynch.........................................          6.37      03/30/99         31,920         32,525
Shell Oil Co. Bond....................................          6.95      12/15/98         50,406         52,002
AT&T Corporate Bond...................................          6.75      04/01/04         50,677         52,250
New Jersey Bell Corporate Bond........................          5.87      02/01/04         39,048         39,662
Bell South Telephone..................................          6.37      06/15/04         40,000         40,900
Dean Witter, Discover & Co............................          6.87      03/01/03         25,499         28,094
General Telephone Co. Florida.........................          8.00      03/01/01         39,684         40,584
Georgia Power First Mortgage Bond.....................          6.62      04/01/03         29,888         30,548
IBM Corporate Bond....................................          7.25      11/01/02         29,738         32,100
Merrill Lynch Corporate Bond..........................          6.25      10/15/08         22,906         26,476
 
                                                                                                     (CONTINUED)
</TABLE>
 
                                       9
<PAGE>
                       PFIZER SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN
                     FOR EMPLOYEES RESIDENT IN PUERTO RICO
                            ITEM 27A -- SCHEDULE OF
                      ASSETS HELD FOR INVESTMENT PURPOSES
                                  (CONTINUED)
                               DECEMBER 31, 1995
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                        INTEREST RATE    MATURITY       COST        FAIR VALUE
                                                        --------------  ----------  -------------  -------------
<S>                                                     <C>             <C>         <C>            <C>
New Jersey Bell Telephone.............................          7.25%     06/01/02  $       9,882  $      10,707
Wal-Mart Stores.......................................          6.75      05/15/02         90,675         93,867
General Electric Credit Corporation...................          7.46      09/30/96         40,000         40,590
General Electric Credit Corporation...................          6.94      11/22/96         25,000         25,342
                                                                                    -------------  -------------
                                                                                        1,081,465      1,125,502
                                                                                    -------------  -------------
  Total other marketable securities...................                                  1,806,318      1,876,876
 
INTEREST-BEARING DEPOSIT
- ------------------------------------------------------
Banco Popular de Puerto Rico, Time Deposit............          4.62                      115,476        115,476
                                                                                    -------------  -------------
      Total of Fund A.................................                              $   1,921,794  $   1,992,352
                                                                                    -------------  -------------
                                                                                    -------------  -------------
</TABLE>
 
FUND B:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              NUMBER OF      INTEREST
               OTHER MARKETABLE SECURITIES                 SHARES OR UNITS     RATE          COST        FAIR VALUE
- ---------------------------------------------------------  ---------------  -----------  -------------  -------------
<S>                                                        <C>              <C>          <C>            <C>
The Northern Trust Company, Collective Stock Index
 Fund....................................................         7,844             --   $     278,353  $     415,656
 
INTEREST-BEARING DEPOSITS
- ---------------------------------------------------------
The Northern Trust Company, Short-Term Investment Fund...            --           5.64%         13,387         13,387
                                                                                         -------------  -------------
      Total of Fund B....................................                                $     291,740  $     429,043
                                                                                         -------------  -------------
                                                                                         -------------  -------------
FUND C:
 
Pfizer Inc. Common Stock.................................        71,818             --   $   2,271,405  $   4,524,543
 
INTEREST-BEARING DEPOSIT
- ---------------------------------------------------------
Banco Popular de Puerto Rico, Time Deposit...............            --           4.62          23,797         23,797
                                                                                         -------------  -------------
      Total of Fund C....................................                                $   2,295,202  $   4,548,340
                                                                                         -------------  -------------
                                                                                         -------------  -------------
COMPANY COMMON STOCK FUND:
Pfizer Inc. Common Stock.................................        87,517             --   $   2,596,932  $   5,513,160
 
INTEREST-BEARING DEPOSIT
- ---------------------------------------------------------
Banco Popular de Puerto Rico, Time Deposit...............            --           4.62          57,834         57,834
                                                                                         -------------  -------------
      Total Company Common Stock Fund....................                                $   2,654,766  $   5,570,994
                                                                                         -------------  -------------
                                                                                         -------------  -------------
</TABLE>
 
                 See accompanying independent auditors' report
 
                                       10
<PAGE>
                     PFIZER SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN FOR
                       EMPLOYEES RESIDENT IN PUERTO RICO
                            ITEM 27D -- SCHEDULE OF
                            REPORTABLE TRANSACTIONS
                               DECEMBER 31, 1995
 
FUNDS A, B, C AND COMPANY COMMON STOCK FUND:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                              NUMBER OF      NUMBER OF
INVESTMENTS PURCHASED                                                       TRANSACTIONS      SHARES         COST
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------  ---------------  -----------  -------------
<S>                                                                        <C>              <C>          <C>
Pfizer Inc. Common Stock.................................................            22         19,217*  $     875,645
Interest-bearing Deposits: Banco Popular de Puerto Rico, Time Deposits...           187             --       3,612,835
</TABLE>
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                     NUMBER OF      NUMBER OF                               REALIZED
INVESTMENTS DISPOSED                               TRANSACTIONS      SHARES         COST       FAIR VALUE     GAIN
- ------------------------------------------------  ---------------  -----------  -------------  -----------  ---------
<S>                                               <C>              <C>          <C>            <C>          <C>
Pfizer Inc. Common Stock........................             4          4,150*  $     122,997      183,217     60,220
Interest-bearing Deposits: Banco Popular de
 Puerto Rico, Time Deposits.....................           143             --       3,562,139    3,562,139         --
</TABLE>
 
* On  June 1995, Pfizer Inc. effected a two-for-one stock split in the form of a
  100% stock  dividend.  The  number  of shares  of  Pfizer  Inc.  common  stock
  purchased  and disposed of  by the Plan prior  to the date  of the stock split
  have been restated to reflect the split.
 
                 See accompanying independent auditors' report
 
                                       11
<PAGE>
                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT
 
To the Administrative Committee
Pfizer Savings and Investment Plan for
Employees Resident in Puerto Rico:
 
    We have audited the accompanying statements of net assets available for plan
benefits  of the  Pfizer Savings and  Investment Plan for  Employees Resident in
Puerto Rico  (the Plan)  as  of December  31, 1995  and  1994, and  the  related
statements  of changes in net  assets available for plan  benefits for the years
then ended.  These financial  statements are  the responsibility  of the  Plan's
management.  Our  responsibility is  to express  an  opinion on  these financial
statements based on our audits.
 
    We conducted  our  audits in  accordance  with generally  accepted  auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence  supporting
the  amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the  accounting  principles used  and  significant estimates  made  by
management,  as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
    In our opinion, the financial  statements referred to above present  fairly,
in all material respects, the net assets available for plan benefits of the Plan
as  of December 31, 1995  and 1994, and the changes  in net assets available for
plan benefits for the  years then ended, in  conformity with generally  accepted
accounting principles.
 
    Our audits were performed for the purpose of forming an opinion on the basic
financial  statements taken as a whole. The supplemental schedules of (1) assets
held for investment purposes and (2) reportable transactions, as of and for  the
year  ended  December 31,  1995,  are presented  for  the purpose  of additional
analysis and are not a required part  of the basic financial statements but  are
supplementary  information  required  by  the Department  of  Labor's  Rules and
Regulations for Reporting  and Disclosure under  the Employee Retirement  Income
Security  Act of  1974. The  Fund Information  in the  statements of  net assets
available for  plan  benefits  and  the statements  of  changes  in  net  assets
available  for plan  benefits is presented  for purposes  of additional analysis
rather than to present the net assets available for plan benefits and changes in
net assets available for plan benefits of each Fund. The supplemental  schedules
and  Fund Information have been subjected  to the auditing procedures applied in
the audits of  the basic financial  statements and, in  our opinion, are  fairly
stated  in all material  respects in relation to  the basic financial statements
taken as a whole.
 
                                                 /s/ KPMG Peat Marwick LLP
                                          --------------------------------------
                                                   KPMG Peat Marwick LLP
February 6, 1996
 
Stamp No. 1308451 of the Puerto Rico
Society of Certified Public Accountants was
affixed to the record copy of this report.
 
                                       12
<PAGE>
                                   SIGNATURES
 
    THE  PLAN.  Pursuant to  the requirements of the  Securities Exchange Act of
1934, the members of the Savings and Investment Plan Committee have duly  caused
this  annual report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly
authorized.
 
                                          PFIZER SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT PLAN FOR
                                          EMPLOYEES RESIDENT IN PUERTO RICO
 
                                          By:        /S/ ANTHONY MADDALUNE
 
                                             -----------------------------------
                                                      Anthony Maddalune
                                                      GENERAL MANAGER,
                                                PFIZER PHARMACEUTICALS, INC.
                                                     CHAIR, SAVINGS AND
                                                  INVESTMENT PLAN COMMITTEE
 
Date: March 28,1996
 
                                       13
<PAGE>
                                                                      EXHIBIT 23
 
                        CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS
 
To the Administrative Committee
Pfizer Savings and Investment Plan for
Employees Resident in Puerto Rico:
 
    We  consent to  the use  of our report  included herein  and incorporated by
reference in the  Registration Statement  on Form  S-8 dated  November 18,  1991
(File  No.  33-44053) of  our report  dated  February 6,  1996, relating  to the
statements of net assets available for  plan benefits of the Pfizer Savings  and
Investment  Plan for Employees Resident  in Puerto Rico as  of December 31, 1995
and 1994, and the related statements of changes in net assets available for plan
benefits for the years then ended, which report appears in the December 31, 1995
annual report  on  Form 11-K  of  the Pfizer  Savings  and Investment  Plan  for
Employees Resident in Puerto Rico.
 
                                                 /s/ KPMG Peat Marwick LLP
                                          --------------------------------------
                                                   KPMG Peat Marwick LLP
San Juan, Puerto Rico
March 28, 1996
 
                                       14
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21
<SEQUENCE>7
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 21
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
                                                                      EXHIBIT 21
 
                         SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT
 
    The  following  is a  list of  subsidiaries of  the Company  as of  the date
hereof, omitting certain subsidiaries  which, considered in  the aggregate as  a
single subsidiary, would not constitute a significant subsidiary.
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                 PERCENTAGE OF
                                                                                     VOTING
                                                                                   SECURITIES
                                                                                    OWNED BY
                                                                                   IMMEDIATE
       NAME                                                 WHERE INCORPORATED       PARENT
       ---------------------------------------------------  -------------------  --------------
<C>    <S>                                                  <C>                  <C>
  (a)  Subsidiaries of Pfizer Inc.:
 
       Radiologic Sciences, Inc...........................  California               100
       Shiley Incorporated................................  California               100
       Valleylab Inc......................................  Colorado                 100
       NAMIC U.S.A. Corporation...........................  Delaware                 100
       Health Care Ventures, Inc..........................  Delaware                 100
       Howmedica Inc......................................  Delaware                 100
       Pfizer Enterprises Inc.............................  Delaware                 100
       Pfizer Health Solutions, Inc.......................  Delaware                 100
       Pfizer Medical Systems, Inc........................  Delaware                 100
       Pfizer Pharmaceuticals, Inc........................  Delaware                 100
       Pfizer Pigments Inc................................  Delaware                 100
       Site Realty, Inc...................................  Delaware                 100
       Strato/Infusaid Inc................................  Massachusetts            100
       American Medical Systems, Inc......................  Minnesota                100
       Schneider (USA) Inc................................  Minnesota                100
       Adforce Inc........................................  New York                 100
       Quigley Company Inc................................  New York                 100
       Pfizer International Inc...........................  New York                 100
       Howmedica G.m.b.H..................................  Austria                  100
       Cadsand Medica N.V.................................  Belgium                  100
       Laboratorios Pfizer Ltd............................  Brazil                   100
       Orsim, S.A.........................................  France                   100
       Van Cadsand Beheer B.V.............................  Netherlands              100
       Pfizer Healthcare Ltd. (Korea).....................  South Korea              100
       Pfizer Trading Corp................................  Taiwan                   100
 
  (b)  Subsidiaries of Pfizer International Inc.
       (a subsidiary of Pfizer Inc.):
 
       Pfizer Overseas Inc................................  Delaware                 100
       Pfizer H.C.P. Corporation..........................  New York                 100
       Pfizer Corporation Austria G.m.b.H.................  Austria                  100
       Pfizer S.A.........................................  Belgium                  100
       The Kodiak Company Ltd.............................  Bermuda                  100
       Pfizer Canada Inc..................................  Canada                   100
       Roerig S.A.........................................  Chile                    100
       Pfizer Biogal L.L.C................................  Hungary                   71.35
       Pfizer (Ireland) Limited...........................  Ireland                  100
       Pfizer Chemical Corp. Ltd..........................  Isle of Man              100
       Pfizer Pharmaceutics Israel Ltd....................  Israel                   100
       Compania Distribuidora Del Centro, S.A. de C.V.....  Mexico                   100
</TABLE>
 
                           Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995
<PAGE>
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                 PERCENTAGE OF
                                                                                     VOTING
                                                                                   SECURITIES
                                                                                    OWNED BY
                                                                                   IMMEDIATE
       NAME                                                 WHERE INCORPORATED       PARENT
       ---------------------------------------------------  -------------------  --------------
<C>    <S>                                                  <C>                  <C>
  (b)  Subsidiaries of Pfizer International Inc.
       (a subsidiary of Pfizer Inc.): -- (Continued)
       Pfizer Holding Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V...........  Mexico                    90
       Pfizer, S.A. de C.V................................  Mexico                   100
       Laboratoires Pfizer S.A............................  Morocco                   98
       Pfizer Specialties Limited.........................  Nigeria                  100
       Pfizer Pharmaceuticals Production Corporation......  Panama                   100
       Pfizer Polska Sp.z.0.0.............................  Poland                   100
       A/O Pfizer.........................................  Russia                   100
       Pfizer Healthcare Ltd. (Korea).....................  South Korea              100
       Pfizer, S.A., S en C. (Bioquimica Industrial
       Espanola)..........................................  Spain                    100
       Pfizer, S.A........................................  Spain                    100
       Pfizer Group Limited...............................  United Kingdom           100
 
  (c)  Subsidiaries of Pfizer Pharmaceuticals Production
       Corporation (a subsidiary of Pfizer
       International Inc.):
 
       Pfizer European Service Center N.V.................  Belgium                   97.3
       Pfizer Research and Development Company
       N.V./S.A...........................................  Belgium                   95
       Kirchimie Ltee.....................................  Canada                   100
       Pfizer Pension Trustees (Ireland) Limited..........  Ireland                  100
       Pfizer International Bank Europe...................  Ireland                   97.5
       Pfizer Service Company Ltd.........................  Ireland                  100
       Pfizer Ringaskiddy Production Company..............  Isle of Man              100
       Roerig Farmaceutici Italiana S.r.1.................  Italy                    100
       Pfizer (N.Z.) Ltd..................................  New Zealand              100
       Pfizer Corporation.................................  Panama                   100
 
  (d)  Subsidiaries of Pfizer Corporation (a subsidiary of
       Pfizer Pharmaceuticals Production Corporation):
       Pficonprod Pty. Limited............................  Australia                100
       Pfizer Agricare Pty. Ltd...........................  Australia                100
       Pfizer Pty. Ltd....................................  Australia                100
       Pfizer S.A.........................................  Colombia                 100
       Pfizer S.A.........................................  Costa Rica               100
       Pfizer C.A.........................................  Ecuador                  100
       Pfizer Egypt S.A.E.................................  Egypt                     85
       Pfizer Limited.....................................  Ghana                     50
       Pfizer Hellas, A.E.................................  Greece                   100
       Pfizer Limited.....................................  India                     40
       PT Pfizer Indonesia................................  Indonesia                 68.2
       Pfizer Laboratories Limited (Kenya)................  Kenya                    100
       Pfizer (Malaysia) Sendirian Berhad.................  Malaysia                 100
       Pfizer (Namibia) (Proprietary) Limited.............  Namibia                  100
       Pfizer Laboratories Limited........................  New Zealand              100
</TABLE>
 
                                       2
<PAGE>
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                 PERCENTAGE OF
                                                                                     VOTING
                                                                                   SECURITIES
                                                                                    OWNED BY
                                                                                   IMMEDIATE
       NAME                                                 WHERE INCORPORATED       PARENT
       ---------------------------------------------------  -------------------  --------------
<C>    <S>                                                  <C>                  <C>
  (d)  Subsidiaries of Pfizer Corporation (a subsidiary of
       Pfizer Pharmaceuticals Production Corporation):
       -- (Continued)
       Livestock Feeds PLC................................  Nigeria                   60
       Pfizer Products PLC................................  Nigeria                   60
       Pfizer A/S.........................................  Norway                   100
       Pfizer Laboratories Limited........................  Pakistan                  76.3
       Pfizer International Corporation S.A...............  Panama                   100
       Harmag Inc.........................................  Panama                   100
       Pfizer S.A.........................................  Peru                     100
       Pfizer Inc.........................................  Philippines              100
       Pfizer Private Limited.............................  Singapore                100
       SmithKline Animal Health (Proprietary) Limited.....  South Africa             100
       Pfizer Laboratories (Proprietary) Limited..........  South Africa             100
       Pfizer Korea Limited...............................  South Korea               50
       Pfizer Limited.....................................  South Korea              100
       Pfizer A.B.........................................  Sweden                   100
       Roerig A.B.........................................  Sweden                   100
       Pfizer Limited.....................................  Taiwan                   100
       Pfizer Limited.....................................  Tanzania                 100
       Pfizer Limited.....................................  Thailand                 100
       Pfizer Ilaclari A.S................................  Turkey                   100
       Pfizer Limited.....................................  Uganda                   100
       Laboratorios Pfizer de Venezuela, S.A..............  Venezuela                100
 
  (e)  Subsidiaries of Pfizer Research and Development
       Company N.V./S.A. (a subsidiary of Pfizer
       Pharmaceuticals Production Corporation):
 
       Pfizer A/S.........................................  Denmark                  100
       Pfizer Oy..........................................  Finland                  100
       Pfizer S.A.........................................  France                   100
       Pfizer Holding Und Verwaltungs G.m.b.H. ...........  Germany                   95
       Pfizer Holdings Ireland............................  Ireland                   84
       Pfizer Italiana S.p.A. ............................  Italy                    100
       Pfizer Pharmaceuticals Inc. .......................  Japan                    100
       Pfizer B.V. .......................................  Netherlands              100
       Pfizer S.G.P.S. Limitada...........................  Portugal                 100
       Howmedica Iberica S.A. ............................  Spain                     87.8
       Schneider (Europe) A.G. ...........................  Switzerland              100
       Pfizer A.G. .......................................  Switzerland              100
</TABLE>
 
                                       3
<PAGE>
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                       PERCENTAGE OF VOTING
                                                                                        SECURITIES OWNED BY
       NAME                                                 WHERE INCORPORATED           IMMEDIATE PARENT
       ---------------------------------------------------  -------------------  ---------------------------------
<C>    <S>                                                  <C>                  <C>
  (f)  Miscellaneous Subsidiaries:
       Shiley International, Inc. ........................  California           Shiley Incorporated 100%
       Schneider (USA) Pittsburgh, Inc. ..................  Delaware             Schneider (USA) Inc. 100%
       Pfizer Pharm Algerie SPA...........................  Algeria              Pfizer S.A. (France) 60%
       Pfizer S.A.C.I. ...................................  Argentina            Pfizer International Corporation
                                                                                  S.A. 100%
       Valleylab Australia Pty. Ltd. .....................  Australia            Valleylab Inc. 100%
       Pfizer Med-Inform Beratungs G.m.b.H. ..............  Austria              Pfizer Corporation Austria
                                                                                  G.m.b.H. 100%
       Pfizer Animal Health S.A. .........................  Belgium              Pfizer S.A. (France) 100%
       Pfizer Hospital Products (Belgium) N.V. ...........  Belgium              Pfizer Hospital Products
                                                                                  (Netherlands) B.V. 100%
       PQI Inc. ..........................................  Canada               Pfizer Canada Inc.. 100%
       Pfizer Zona Franca S.A. ...........................  Costa Rica           Pfizer S.A. (Costa Rica) 100%
       Pfizer s.r.o. .....................................  Czech Republic       Pfizer S.A. (Belgium) 100%
       Benoist Girard & Cie S.C.A. .......................  France               Pfizer S.A. 100%
       Howmedica France S.C.A. ...........................  France               Pfizer S.A. 100%
       Laboratoire Beral, S.A. ...........................  France               Pfizer S.A. 100%
       Leibinger S.A.R.L..................................  France               Howmedica Leibinger G.m.b.H. 100%
       Pfizer Animal Health S.A. .........................  France               Pfizer S.A. (France)100%
       Heinrich Mack Nachf. ..............................  Germany              Pfizer G.m.b.H. 100%
       Hilekes G.m.b.H. ..................................  Germany              Howmedica G.m.b.H. 100%
       Howmedica Leibinger G.m.b.H........................  Germany              Pfizer G.m.b.H. 100%
       Pfizer G.m.b.H. ...................................  Germany              Pfizer Holding Und Verwaltungs
                                                                                  G.m.b.H. 100%
       SmithKline Beecham Tiergesundheit G.m.b.H. ........  Germany              Pfizer Holding Und Verwaltungs
                                                                                  G.m.b.H. 100%
       Taylor Kosmetik G.m.b.H. ..........................  Germany              Pfizer Holding Und Verwaltungs
                                                                                  G.m.b.H. 100%
       Pfizer LLC.........................................  Hungary              Pfizer S.A. Belgium 100%
       Leema Chemicals & Cosmetics Private Limited........  India                Pfizer Limited 100%
       Duchem Laboratories Limited........................  India                Pfizer Limited (India) 100%
       Bioindustria Farmaceutici S.p.A....................  Italy                Pfizer Italiana S.p.A 98.8%
       Restiva S.r.1. ....................................  Italy                Pfizer Italiana S.p.A. 99%
       SudFarma S.r.1. ...................................  Italy                Roerig Farmaceutici Italiana
                                                                                  S.r.1. 90%;
                                                                                  Pfizer Italiana S.p.A. 10%
       Pfizer Shoji Co., Ltd. ............................  Japan                Pfizer Pharmaceuticals Inc.
                                                                                  (Japan) 100%
       Schneider Japan K.K. ..............................  Japan                Pfizer Pharmaceuticals Inc.
                                                                                  (Japan) 100%
       Pfizer S.A. .......................................  Morocco              Pfizer S.A. 56%; Laboratoire
                                                                                  Beral, S.A. 44%
       A.S. Ruffel (Mozambique) Limitada..................  Mozambique           SmithKline Animal Health
                                                                                  (Proprietary) Limited 100%
</TABLE>
 
                                       4
<PAGE>
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                       PERCENTAGE OF VOTING
                                                                                        SECURITIES OWNED BY
       NAME                                                 WHERE INCORPORATED           IMMEDIATE PARENT
       ---------------------------------------------------  -------------------  ---------------------------------
<C>    <S>                                                  <C>                  <C>
  (f)  Miscellaneous Subsidiaries:
       -- (Continued)
       SmithKline Animal Health (SWA) (Pty) Ltd. .........  Namibia              SmithKline Animal Health
                                                                                  (Proprietary) Limited 100%
       Cadsand Medica B.V. ...............................  Netherlands          Van Cadsand Beheer B.V. 100%
       Pfizer Animal Health B.V. .........................  Netherlands          Pfizer B.V. 100%
       Pfizer Hospital Products (Netherlands) B.V. .......  Netherlands          Shiley International, Inc. 100%
       Roerig B.V. .......................................  Netherlands          Pfizer B.V. 100%
       Pfizer Pharmaceuticals Ltd. .......................  People's Republic    Pfizer Enterprises Inc. 67.1%
                                                            of China
       Laboratorios Pfizer S.A. ..........................  Portugal             Pfizer S.G.P.S. Limitada 100%
       SmithKline Becham Animal Health (Singapore) Private
       Limited............................................  Singapore            Pfizer Private Limited 100%
       Pfizer Salud Animal, S.A. .........................  Spain                Pfizer S.A. (Spain) 100%
       Pfizer Hospital Products A.B. .....................  Sweden               Shiley International, Inc. 100%
       AMS Medinvent S.A. ................................  Switzerland          Nilo Holdings, S.A. 100%
       Nilo Holding, S.A. ................................  Switzerland          Schneider (Europe) A.G. 100%
       Biomedical Sensors (Holdings) Ltd. ................  United Kingdom       Howmedica International Inc. 100%
       Biomedical Sensors Ltd. ...........................  United Kingdom       Biomedical Sensors (Holdings)
                                                                                  Ltd. 100%
       Charwell Pharmaceuticals Limited...................  United Kingdom       Unicliffe Limited 100%
       Howmedica International Limited....................  United Kingdom       Pfizer Group Limited 100%
       Istin 95...........................................  United Kingdom       Pfizer Limited 100%
       Measureaim Ltd. ...................................  United Kingdom       Howmedica International Limited
                                                                                  100%
       Pfizer Hospital Products Pension Trustees, Ltd. ...  United Kingdom       Pfizer Hospital Products, Ltd.
                                                                                  (U.K.) 100%
       Pfizer Hospital Products, Ltd. ....................  United Kingdom       Howmedica International Limited
                                                                                  100%
       Pfizer Limited.....................................  United Kingdom       Pfizer Group Limited 100%
       Pfizer Pension Trustees Ltd. ......................  United Kingdom       Pfizer Limited 100%
       Shiley Ltd. .......................................  United Kingdom       Howmedica International Limited
                                                                                  100%
       Unicliffe Limited..................................  United Kingdom       Pfizer Limited 100%
       Pfizer Bioquimicos S.A. ...........................  Venezuela            Laboratorios Pfizer de Venezuela,
                                                                                  S.A. 100%
       Pfizer S.A. .......................................  Venezuela            Laboratorios Pfizer de Venezuela,
                                                                                  S.A. 100%
       AS Ruffel (Private) Ltd. ..........................  Zimbabwe             SmithKline Animal Health
                                                                                  (Proprietary) Limited 100%
</TABLE>
 
                                       5
<PAGE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                                       PERCENTAGE OF VOTING
                                                                                        SECURITIES OWNED BY
       NAME                                                 WHERE INCORPORATED           IMMEDIATE PARENT
       ---------------------------------------------------  -------------------  ---------------------------------
<C>    <S>                                                  <C>                  <C>
  (g)  Subsidiaries of Howmedica Inc.
       (a subsidiary of Pfizer Inc.):
 
       Howmedica Leibinger Inc. ..........................  Delaware                            100
       Howmedica Investments Pty. Ltd. ...................  Australia                           100
       S.D. Investments Pty. Ltd. ........................  Australia                           100
       Howmedica G.m.b.H. ................................  Germany                             100
       Howmedica International Inc. ......................  Panama                              100
       Jaquet Orthopedie S.A. ............................  Switzerland                         100
 
  (h)  Subsidiaries of NAMIC U.S.A.
       Corporation (a subsidiary of Pfizer
       Inc.):
 
       NAMIC Caribe, Inc. ................................  Delaware                            100
       NAMIC Eireann Limited..............................  Ireland                             100
       NAMIC Eireann B. V. ...............................  Netherlands                         100
       NAMIC Worldwide B. V. .............................  Netherlands                         100
       NAMIC International, Inc. .........................  Virgin Islands                      100
</TABLE>
 
                                       6
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23
<SEQUENCE>8
<DESCRIPTION>EXHIBIT 23
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
                                                                      EXHIBIT 23
 
         REPORT AND CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
 
To the Shareholders and Board of Directors of
  PFIZER INC.:
 
    Under  date of  February 22, 1996,  we reported on  the consolidated balance
sheet of Pfizer Inc. and subsidiary companies as of December 31, 1995, 1994  and
1993 and the related consolidated statements of income, shareholders' equity and
cash  flows for the years then ended, as  contained in the 1995 Annual Report to
Shareholders. These consolidated financial statements and our report thereon are
incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year  1995.
The  audits  referred to  in our  report  dated February  22, 1996  included the
related financial statement schedule as of December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993  and
for   the  years   then  ended.  This   financial  statement   schedule  is  the
responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express  an
opinion  on  this  financial statement  schedule  based  on our  audits.  In our
opinion, such financial statement schedule,  when considered in relation to  the
basic  consolidated financial statements  taken as a  whole, presents fairly, in
all material respects, the information set forth therein.
 
    We consent to  the use of  our reports included  and incorporated herein  by
reference.
 
    We  also consent  to the  incorporation by reference  of our  reports in the
Prospectus dated December 27, 1972, as supplemented February 6, 1973, of  Pfizer
Inc., filed under the Securities Act of 1933 on Registration Statement Form S-16
dated  October 27, 1972 (File No. 2-46157),  as amended, in the Prospectus dated
June 14, 1979, of Pfizer Inc., in the Registration Statement on Form S-16  dated
April  26, 1979 (File No. 2-64610), as amended, in the Registration Statement on
Form S-15  dated  December 13,  1982  (File No.  2-80884),  as amended,  in  the
Registration Statement on Form S-8 dated October 27, 1983 (File No. 2-87473), as
amended,  in the Registration Statement  on Form S-8 dated  March 22, 1990 (File
No. 33-34139), in the Registration Statement on Form S-8 dated January 24,  1991
(File  No. 33-38708), in the  Registration Statement on Form  S-3 dated June 26,
1991 (File No. 33-41367), as amended, in the Registration Statement on Form  S-8
dated  November 18, 1991  (File No. 33-44053), in  the Registration Statement on
Form S-3 dated May 27, 1993  (File No. 33-49629), in the Registration  Statement
on  Form  S-8  dated May  27,  1993  (File No.  33-49631),  in  the Registration
Statement on  Form  S-8  dated  May  19,  1994,  (File  No.  33-53713),  in  the
Registration Statement on Form S-8 dated October 5, 1994 (File No. 33-55771), in
the  Registration  Statement  on Form  S-3  dated  November 14,  1994  (File No.
33-56435), in the  Registration Statement on  Form S-8 dated  December 20,  1994
(File  No.  33-56979),  and in  the  Registration  Statement on  Form  S-4 dated
February 14, 1995 (File No. 33-57709).
 
                                                 /s/ KPMG Peat Marwick LLP
                                          --------------------------------------
                                                   KPMG Peat Marwick LLP
New York, New York
March 28, 1996
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27
<SEQUENCE>9
<DESCRIPTION>FDS
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>

<PAGE>
<ARTICLE> 5
<LEGEND>
THIS SCHEDULE CONTAINS SUMMARY FINANCIAL INFORMATION EXTRACTED FROM PFIZER INC.
AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET AND CONDENSED
STATEMETN OF INCOME FOR THE PERIOD DECEMBER 31, 1995 AND IS QUALIFIED IN ITS
ENTIRETY BY REFERENCE TO SUCH FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
</LEGEND>
       
<S>                             <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                   12-MOS
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                          DEC-31-1995
<PERIOD-END>                               DEC-31-1995
<CASH>                                             403
<SECURITIES>                                     1,109
<RECEIVABLES>                                    2,085
<ALLOWANCES>                                      (61)
<INVENTORY>                                      1,384
<CURRENT-ASSETS>                                 6,152
<PP&E>                                           5,464
<DEPRECIATION>                                 (1,991)
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                                  12,724
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>                            5,187
<BONDS>                                            833
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                                0
<PREFERRED>                                          0
<COMMON>                                            34
<OTHER-SE>                                       5,472
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>                    12,729
<SALES>                                         10,021
<TOTAL-REVENUES>                                10,021
<CGS>                                            2,164
<TOTAL-COSTS>                                    2,164
<OTHER-EXPENSES>                                 5,297
<LOSS-PROVISION>                                    27
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                                 193
<INCOME-PRETAX>                                  2,299
<INCOME-TAX>                                       738
<INCOME-CONTINUING>                              1,544
<DISCONTINUED>                                      19
<EXTRAORDINARY>                                      0
<CHANGES>                                            0
<NET-INCOME>                                     1,573
<EPS-PRIMARY>                                     2.50
<EPS-DILUTED>                                     2.49
        

</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-99.1
<SEQUENCE>10
<DESCRIPTION>EX-99-1
<TEXT>

<PAGE>

                                                                      EXHIBIT 99

            CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS REGARDING "SAFE HARBOR" PROVISIONS
             OF THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995



The Company's 1995 Annual Report to Shareholders and Form 10-K are among certain
communications by the Company which contain forward looking statements including
statements regarding its financial position, results of operations, market
position and product development.  These forward looking statements are based on
current expectations.  As permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform
Act of 1995, the Company is hereby filing the following cautionary statements
identifying important factors which, among others, could cause the Company's
actual results to differ materially from expected and historical results.

- -    Changing business conditions including inflation and fluctuations in
     interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates.

- -    Competitive factors including managed care groups, institutions and
     government agencies seeking price discounts; technological advances
     attained by competitors; patents granted to competitors; and generic
     competition as products mature.

- -    Government laws and regulations affecting domestic and international
     operations, including trade, monetary and fiscal policies, taxes, price
     controls unstable governments and legal systems and intergovernmental
     disputes, possible nationalization, as well as actions affecting approvals
     of products and licensing.

- -    Adverse publicity and developments resulting from questions raised 
     regarding the use of calcium channel blockers.

- -    Changes in the current tax law such as those currently being considered by
     the U.S. Congress and the Clinton Administration which would phase down the
     Section 936 income tax credit, the income-based tax credit for those
     companies with operations in Puerto Rico where the Company has a major 
     manufacturing facility. Both proposals provide for the phase down of the 
     Section 936 credit over a period of five to ten years.

- -    Difficulties or delays in product development including, but not limited
     to, the inability to identify viable new chemical compounds, 
     successfully complete clinical trials, obtain regulatory approval for
     the compounds or gain market acceptance of approved products.  Similar
     difficulties or delays can also affect the development of the Company's
     other businesses.

<PAGE>

- -    Growth in costs and expenses including changes in product mix and the
     impact of divestitures, restructuring and other unusual items that could
     result from evolving business strategies, evaluation of asset realization,
     and organizational structures.

- -    Issuance of unfavorable accounting standards and rules.

- -    Changing social conditions.

- -    Significant litigation adverse to the Company. 

- -    Business combinations among the Company's competitors could affect the 
     Company's ranking in the pharmaceutical industry.
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
